
# 14. Connecting to a Network
--------

The LFS book covers setting up networking by connecting to a LAN with a static IP address. There are other methods used to obtain an IP address and connect to a LAN and other networks (such as the Internet). The most popular methods (DHCP and PPP) are covered in this chapter.

DHCP stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. It is a protocol used by many sites to automatically provide information such as IP addresses, subnet masks and routing information to computers. If your network uses DHCP, you will need a DHCP client in order to connect to it.


## 14.1 Advanced Network Setup
--------

Network Bridge
--------------

#### Kernel Configuration

Enable the following options in the kernel configuration and recompile the kernel if necessary:

```bash
Networking support: Y
  Networking options:
    802.1d Ethernet Bridging: M or Y
```

#### Setting up a Network Bridge

In this section we are are going to discuss how to set up a network bridge using **systemd-networkd**. In the examples below, `eth0` represents the external interface that is being bridged, while `br0` represents the bridge interface.

To create a bridge interface, create the following configuration file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/systemd/network/50-br0.netdev << EOF
[NetDev]
Name=br0
Kind=bridge
EOF
```

To assign a network interface to a bridge, create the following configuration file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/systemd/network/51-eth0.network << EOF
[Match]
Name=eth0

[Network]
Bridge=br0
EOF
```

Repeat the process for any other interfaces that need to be bridged. Note that it is important that nothing assigns any addresses to the bridged interfaces. If you are using [NetworkManager-1.42.0](16.Networking_utilities.md#163-networkmanager-1420), make sure you configure them to ignore the bridged interfaces, as well as the bridge interface itself.

If you are on a network which uses DHCP for assigning ip addresses, create the following configuration file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/systemd/network/60-br0.network << EOF
[Match]
Name=br0

[Network]
DHCP=yes
EOF
```

Alternatively, if using a static ip setup, create the following configuration file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/systemd/network/60-br0.network << EOF
[Match]
Name=br0

[Network]
DHCP=yes
EOF
```

To bring up the bridge interface, simply restart the **systemd-networkd** daemon by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl restart systemd-networkd
```


## 14.2 dhcpcd-9.4.1
--------

Introduction to dhcpcd
----------------------

dhcpcd is an implementation of the DHCP client specified in RFC2131. A DHCP client is useful for connecting your computer to a network which uses DHCP to assign network addresses. dhcpcd strives to be a fully featured, yet very lightweight DHCP client.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://roy.marples.name/downloads/dhcpcd/dhcpcd-9.4.1.tar.xz](https://roy.marples.name/downloads/dhcpcd/dhcpcd-9.4.1.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 2b2f46648bc96979f96127f0e0e07d9b
    
*   Download size: 251 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.6 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU (with tests)
    

### dhcpcd Dependencies

#### Optional

[LLVM-15.0.7](13.Programming.md#1313-llvm-1507) (with Clang), [ntp-4.2.8p15](15.Networking_programs.md#157-ntp-428p15), [chronyd](https://chrony.tuxfamily.org/), and [ypbind](https://github.com/thkukuk/ypbind-mt/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/dhcpcd](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/dhcpcd)

Privilege separation
--------------------

Recent releases of dhcpcd optionally support privilege separation. As the practical security benefits of this are unclear for a program like dhcpcd and the setup is more complicated, the book currently defaults to disable it.

If you however would like to use privilege separation, additional installation steps are necessary to set up the proper environment. Issue the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
install  -v -m700 -d /var/lib/dhcpcd &&

groupadd -g 52 dhcpcd        &&
useradd  -c 'dhcpcd PrivSep' \
         -d /var/lib/dhcpcd  \
         -g dhcpcd           \
         -s /bin/false       \
         -u 52 dhcpcd &&
chown    -v dhcpcd:dhcpcd /var/lib/dhcpcd
```

Installation of dhcpcd
----------------------

Fix a runtime error caused by a change in glibc-2.36:

```bash
sed '/Deny everything else/i SECCOMP_ALLOW(__NR_getrandom),' \
    -i src/privsep-linux.c
```

Build dhcpcd without privilege separation by running the following command:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr                \
            --sysconfdir=/etc            \
            --libexecdir=/usr/lib/dhcpcd \
            --dbdir=/var/lib/dhcpcd      \
            --runstatedir=/run           \
            --disable-privsep         &&
make
```

Build dhcpcd with privilege separation by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr                \
            --sysconfdir=/etc            \
            --libexecdir=/usr/lib/dhcpcd \
            --dbdir=/var/lib/dhcpcd      \
            --runstatedir=/run           \
            --privsepuser=dhcpcd         &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make test**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--libexecdir=/usr/lib/dhcpcd`: Set a more proper location for dhcpcd internal libraries.

`--dbdir=/var/lib/dhcpcd`: The default `/var/db` is not FHS-compliant

`--runstatedir=/run`: The default `/var/run` is a symbolic link to `/run`.

`--with-hook=...`: You can optionally install more hooks, for example to install some configuration files such as `ntp.conf`. The set of hooks is in the `dhcpcd-hooks` directory in the build tree.

`--disable-privsep`: Do not use privilege separation, which is the default.

`--privsepuser=dhcpcd`: Use this unprivileged user in a privilege separation setup.

`--with-hook=...`: You can optionally install more hooks, for example to install some configuration files such as `ntp.conf`. The set of hooks is in the `dhcpcd-hooks` directory in the build tree.

Configuring dhcpcd
------------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/dhcpcd.conf`

#### General Configuration Information

If you want to configure network interfaces at boot using **dhcpcd**, you need to install the systemd unit included in [blfs-systemd-units-20220720](2.Important_information.md#24-blfs-systemd-units) package by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
make install-dhcpcd
```

### Note

The default behavior of **dhcpcd** is to set the hostname and the mtu. It also overwrites `/etc/resolv.conf` and `/etc/ntp.conf`. These modifications to system configuration files are done by hooks which are stored in `/lib/dhcpcd/dhcpcd-hooks`. Set up **dhcpcd** by removing or adding hooks from/to that directory. The execution of hooks can be disabled by using the `--nohook` (`-C`) command line option or by the `nohook` option in the `/etc/dhcpcd.conf` file.

### Note

Make sure that you disable the **systemd-networkd** service or configure it not to manage the interfaces you want to manage with dhcpcd.

At this point you can test if **dhcpcd** is behaving as expected by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl start dhcpcd@eth0
```

To start **dhcpcd** on a specific interface at boot, enable the previously installed systemd unit by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl enable dhcpcd@eth0
```

Replace `eth0` with the actual interface name.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** dhcpcd

**Installed Library:** /usr/lib/dhcpcd/dev/udev.so

**Installed Directory:** /{usr,var}/lib/dhcpcd and /usr/share/dhcpcd

### Short Descriptions

**dhcpcd**              is an implementation of the DHCP client specified in RFC2131.

`udev.so`               adds udev support for interface arrival and departure; this is because udev likes to rename the interface, which it can't do if dhcpcd grabs it first.


## 14.3 DHCP-4.4.3-P1
--------

Introduction to ISC DHCP
------------------------

The ISC DHCP package contains both the client and server programs for DHCP. **dhclient** (the client) is used for connecting to a network which uses DHCP to assign network addresses. **dhcpd** (the server) is used for assigning network addresses on private networks.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://ftp.isc.org/isc/dhcp/4.4.3-P1/dhcp-4.4.3-P1.tar.gz](https://ftp.isc.org/isc/dhcp/4.4.3-P1/dhcp-4.4.3-P1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.isc.org/isc/dhcp/4.4.3-P1/dhcp-4.4.3-P1.tar.gz](ftp://ftp.isc.org/isc/dhcp/4.4.3-P1/dhcp-4.4.3-P1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 36c6ca77212373b0cff478ae9e5d32af
    
*   Download size: 9.6 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 199 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.7 SBU
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/dhcp](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/dhcp)

Kernel Configuration
--------------------

You must have Packet Socket support. IPv6 support is optional.

```bash
[*] Networking support --->        [CONFIG_NET]
      Networking options --->
        <*> Packet socket          [CONFIG_PACKET]
        <*> The IPv6 Protocol ---> [CONFIG_IPV6]
```

Installation of ISC DHCP
------------------------

### Note

This package does not support parallel build.

### Note

Be careful with the instructions below. The single and double quotes are important because the defined variables are used verbatim in the code.

Install ISC DHCP by running the following commands:

```bash
( export CFLAGS="${CFLAGS:--g -O2} -Wall -fno-strict-aliasing                 \
        -D_PATH_DHCLIENT_SCRIPT='\"/usr/sbin/dhclient-script\"'     \
        -D_PATH_DHCPD_CONF='\"/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf\"'               \
        -D_PATH_DHCLIENT_CONF='\"/etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf\"'"        &&

./configure --prefix=/usr                                           \
            --sysconfdir=/etc/dhcp                                  \
            --localstatedir=/var                                    \
            --with-srv-lease-file=/var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases       \
            --with-srv6-lease-file=/var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd6.leases     \
            --with-cli-lease-file=/var/lib/dhclient/dhclient.leases \
            --with-cli6-lease-file=/var/lib/dhclient/dhclient6.leases
) &&
make -j1
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

If you only want to install the ISC DHCP client, issue the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
make -C client install             &&
install -v -m755 client/scripts/linux /usr/sbin/dhclient-script
```

Skip to the section called “Client Configuration” in order to configure the client

If you only want to install the ISC DHCP server, issue the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
make -C server install
```

Skip to the section called “Server Configuration” in order to configure the server.

Alternatively, you can install whole package which includes the client, server, relay, static libraries and development headers by running the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m755 client/scripts/linux /usr/sbin/dhclient-script
```

Configuring ISC DHCP
--------------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf` and `/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf`

#### Client Configuration

Create a basic `/etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf` by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
install -vdm755 /etc/dhcp &&
cat > /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf
#
# Basic dhclient.conf(5)

#prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
        ntp-servers;
require subnet-mask, domain-name-servers;
#timeout 60;
#retry 60;
#reboot 10;
#select-timeout 5;
#initial-interval 2;

# End /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf
EOF
```

See **man 5 dhclient.conf** for additional options.

Now create the `/var/lib/dhclient` directory which will contain DHCP Client leases by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -dm 755 /var/lib/dhclient
```

If you want to configure network interfaces at boot using **dhclient**, you need to install the `[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)` unit included in the [blfs-systemd-units-20220720](2.Important_information.md#24-blfs-systemd-units) package by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
make install-dhclient
```

### Note

Make sure that you disable the **systemd-networkd** service or configure it not to manage the interfaces you want to manage with **dhclient**.

At this point you can test if **dhclient** is behaving as expected by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl start dhclient@eth0
```

To start **dhclient** on a specific interface at boot, enable the previously installed systemd unit by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl enable dhclient@eth0
```

Replace `eth0` with the actual interface name.

#### Server Configuration

Note that you only need the DHCP server if you want to issue LAN addresses over your network. The DHCP client doesn't need the server in order to function properly.

Start with creating `/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf` by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
#
# Example dhcpd.conf(5)

# Use this to enable / disable dynamic dns updates globally.
ddns-update-style none;

# option definitions common to all supported networks...
option domain-name "example.org";
option domain-name-servers ns1.example.org, ns2.example.org;

default-lease-time 600;
max-lease-time 7200;

# This is a very basic subnet declaration.
subnet 10.254.239.0 netmask 255.255.255.224 {
  range 10.254.239.10 10.254.239.20;
  option routers rtr-239-0-1.example.org, rtr-239-0-2.example.org;
}

# End /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
EOF
```

Adjust the file to suit your needs. See **man 5 dhcpd.conf** for additional options.

Now create the `/var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases` directory which will contain DHCP Server leases by running the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -dm 755 /var/lib/dhcpd &&
touch /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases
```

If you want to start the DHCP Server at boot, install the `dhcpd.service` unit included in the [blfs-systemd-units-20220720](2.Important_information.md#24-blfs-systemd-units) package:

```bash
make install-dhcpd
```

You will need to edit the `/etc/default/dhcpd` in order to set the interface on which **dhcpd** will serve the DHCP requests.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** dhclient, dhclient-script, dhcpd, dhcrelay and omshell

**Installed Libraries:** libdhcpctl.a and libomapi.a

**Installed Directories:** /etc/dhcp, /usr/include/dhcpctl, /usr/include/isc-dhcp, /usr/include/omapip, /var/lib/dhclient and /var/lib/dhcpd

### Short Descriptions

**dhclient**            is the implementation of the DHCP client.

**dhclient-script**     is used by dhclient to (re)configure interfaces. It can make extra changes by invoking custom dhclient-{entry,exit}-hooks.

**dhcpd**               implements Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Internet Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP) requests for network addresses.

**dhcrelay**            provides a means to accept DHCP and BOOTP requests on a subnet without a DHCP server and relay them to a DHCP server on another subnet.

**omshell**             provides an interactive way to connect to, query and possibly change the ISC DHCP Server's state via OMAPI, the Object Management API.
