
# 18. Text Web Browsers
--------

People who are new to Unix-based systems tend to ask the question "Why on earth would I want a text-mode browser? I'm going to compile X and use Firefox/Falkon/Whatever!". Those who have been around systems for a while know that when (not if) you manage to mess up your graphical browser install and you need to look up some information on the web, a console based browser will save you. Also, there are quite a few people who prefer to use one of these browsers as their primary method of browsing; either to avoid the clutter and bandwidth which accompanies images or because they may use a text-to-speech synthesizer which can read the page to them (of use for instance to partially sighted or blind users). In this chapter you will find installation instructions for two console web browsers:


## 18.1 Links-2.28
--------

**Introduction to Links**

Links is a text and graphics mode WWW browser. It includes support for rendering tables and frames, features background downloads, can display colors and has many other features.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

#### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [http://links.twibright.com/download/links-2.28.tar.bz2](http://links.twibright.com/download/links-2.28.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 915c45777f0c9d8e6ec85438cbd7d3df
    
*   Download size: 6.2 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 35 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU
    

#### Links Dependencies

***Recommended***

[libevent-2.1.12](17.Networking_libraries.md#177-libevent-2112)

***Optional***

Graphics mode requires at least one of [GPM-1.20.7](12.System_utilities.md#1212-gpm-1207) (mouse support to be used with a framebuffer-based console), [SVGAlib](https://www.svgalib.org/), [DirectFB](https://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/repo/pkgs/directfb/) , and [a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md)

For decoding various image formats Links can utilize [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [librsvg-2.54.5](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1022-librsvg-2545), and [libtiff-4.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1024-libtiff-450)

For decompressing web pages that are compressed with Brotli, Links can utilize [Brotli-1.0.9](9.General_libraries.md#95-brotli-109)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/LinksBrowser](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/LinksBrowser)

#### Installation of Links

Install Links by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --mandir=/usr/share/man &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -d -m755 /usr/share/doc/links-2.28 &&
install -v -m644 doc/links_cal/* KEYS BRAILLE_HOWTO \
    /usr/share/doc/links-2.28
```

#### Command Explanations

`--enable-graphics`: This switch enables support for graphics mode.

#### Configuring Links

##### Config Files

`~/.links/*`

##### Configuration Information

Links stores its configuration in per-user files in the `~/.links` directory. These files are created automatically when **links** is run for the first time.

#### Contents

**Installed Program:** links

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directories:** /usr/share/doc/links-2.28

#### Short Descriptions

**links**               is a text and graphics mode WWW browser.


## 18.2 Lynx-2.8.9rel.1
--------

#### Introduction to Lynx

Lynx is a text based web browser.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

#### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://invisible-mirror.net/archives/lynx/tarballs/lynx2.8.9rel.1.tar.bz2](https://invisible-mirror.net/archives/lynx/tarballs/lynx2.8.9rel.1.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 44316f1b8a857b59099927edc26bef79
    
*   Download size: 2.5 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 31 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU
    

#### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/lynx-2.8.9rel.1-security_fix-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/lynx-2.8.9rel.1-security_fix-1.patch)
    

#### Lynx Dependencies

##### Optional

[GnuTLS-3.8.0](4.Security.md#47-gnutls-380) (experimental, to replace openssl), [Zip-3.0](12.System_utilities.md#1236-zip-30), [UnZip-6.0](12.System_utilities.md#1232-unzip-60), an [MTA](21.Mail_server_software.md) (that provides a **sendmail** command), and [Sharutils-4.15.2](11.General_utilities.md#1118-sharutils-4152) (for the **uudecode** program)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Lynx](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Lynx)

#### Installation of Lynx

First, apply a patch to fix a security vulnerability:

```bash
patch -p1 -i ../lynx-2.8.9rel.1-security_fix-1.patch
```

Install Lynx by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr          \
            --sysconfdir=/etc/lynx \
            --datadir=/usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1 \
            --with-zlib            \
            --with-bzlib           \
            --with-ssl             \
            --with-screen=ncursesw \
            --enable-locale-charset &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install-full &&
chgrp -v -R root /usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1/lynx_doc
```

#### Command Explanations

`--sysconfdir=/etc/lynx`: This parameter is used so that the configuration files are located in `/etc/lynx` instead of `/usr/etc`.

`--datadir=/usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1`: This parameter is used so that the documentation files are installed into `/usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1` instead of `/usr/share/lynx_{doc,help}`.

`--with-zlib`: This enables support for linking `libz` into Lynx.

`--with-bzlib`: This enables support for linking `libbz2` into Lynx.

`--with-ssl`: This enables support for linking SSL into Lynx.

`--with-screen=ncursesw`: This switch enables the use of advanced wide-character support present in the system NCurses library. This is needed for proper display of characters and line wrapping in multibyte locales.

`--enable-locale-charset`: This switch allows Lynx to deduce the proper character encoding for terminal output from the current locale. A configuration step is still needed (see below), but unlike the situation without this switch, the configuration step becomes the same for all users (without the switch one must specify the display character set explicitly). This is important for environments such as a LiveCD, where the amount of system-specific configuration steps has to be reduced to the minimum.

`--enable-ipv6`: This switch allows Lynx to use IPv6, along with IPv4. Use it if your ISP provides an IPv6 configuration.

`--enable-nls`: This switch allows Lynx to print translated messages (such as questions about cookies and SSL certificates).

`--with-gnutls`: This enables experimental support for linking GnuTLS into Lynx. Remove the `--with-ssl` switch if you want to use gnutls.

**make install-full**: In addition to the standard installation, this target installs the documentation and help files.

**chgrp -v -R root /usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1/lynx_doc** : This command corrects the improper group ownership of installed documentation files.

#### Configuring Lynx

##### Config Files

`/etc/lynx/lynx.cfg`

##### Configuration Information

The proper way to get the display character set is to examine the current locale. However, Lynx does not do this by default. As the `root` user, change this setting:

```bash
sed -e '/#LOCALE/     a LOCALE_CHARSET:TRUE'     \
    -i /etc/lynx/lynx.cfg
```

The built-in editor in Lynx [Breaks Multibyte Characters](2.Important_information.md). This issue manifests itself in multibyte locales, e.g., as the Backspace key not erasing non-ASCII characters properly, and as incorrect data being sent to the network when one edits the contents of text areas. The only solution to this problem is to configure Lynx to use an external editor (bound to the “Ctrl+X e” key combination by default). Still as the `root` user:

```bash
sed -e '/#DEFAULT_ED/ a DEFAULT_EDITOR:vi'       \
    -i /etc/lynx/lynx.cfg
```

Lynx handles the following values of the DEFAULT_EDITOR option specially by adding cursor-positioning arguments: “emacs”, “jed”, “jmacs”, “joe”, “jove”, “jpico”, “jstar”, “nano”, “pico”, “rjoe”, “vi” (but not “vim”: in order to position the cursor in [Vim-9.0.1273](6.Editors.md#69-vim-901273), set this option to “vi”).

By default, Lynx doesn't save cookies between sessions. Again as the `root` user, change this setting:

```bash
sed -e '/#PERSIST/    a PERSISTENT_COOKIES:TRUE' \
    -i /etc/lynx/lynx.cfg
```

Many other system-wide settings such as proxies can also be set in the `/etc/lynx/lynx.cfg` file.

#### Contents

**Installed Program:** lynx

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directories:** /etc/lynx and /usr/share/doc/lynx-2.8.9rel.1

#### Short Descriptions 

**lynx**                is a general purpose, text-based, distributed information browser for the World Wide Web.
