
# 23. Other Server Software
--------

Here you will find many ways to share your machine with the rest of the world or your local network. Before installing any packages in this chapter, you need to be sure you understand what the package does and how to set it up correctly. It might also be helpful to learn about the consequences of an improper setup so that you can analyze the risks.


## 23.1 OpenLDAP-2.6.4
--------

Introduction to OpenLDAP
------------------------

The OpenLDAP package provides an open source implementation of the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.openldap.org/software/download/OpenLDAP/openldap-release/openldap-2.6.4.tgz](https://www.openldap.org/software/download/OpenLDAP/openldap-release/openldap-2.6.4.tgz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.openldap.org/pub/OpenLDAP/openldap-release/openldap-2.6.4.tgz](ftp://ftp.openldap.org/pub/OpenLDAP/openldap-release/openldap-2.6.4.tgz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: fee2b0dca212b41c87976d0414f30f12
    
*   Download size: 6.2 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 58 MB (client and server)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.4 SBU (client), 1.1 SBU (server)
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/openldap-2.6.4-consolidated-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/openldap-2.6.4-consolidated-1.patch)
    

### OpenLDAP Dependencies

#### Recommended

[Cyrus SASL-2.1.28](4.Security.md#45-cyrus-sasl-2128)

#### Optional

[GnuTLS-3.8.0](4.Security.md#47-gnutls-380), [Pth-2.0.7](9.General_libraries.md#980-pth-207), [unixODBC-2.3.11](11.General_utilities.md#1123-unixodbc-2311), [MariaDB-10.6.12](22.Databases.md#224-mariadb-10612) or [PostgreSQL-15.2](22.Databases.md#225-postgresql-152) or [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/), [OpenSLP](http://www.openslp.org/), [WiredTiger](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/wiredtiger/), and [Berkeley DB-5.3.28](22.Databases.md#222-berkeley-db-5328) (for slapd, but deprecated)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/openldap](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/openldap)

Installation of OpenLDAP
------------------------

### Note

If you only need to install the client side ldap* binaries, corresponding man pages, libraries and header files (referred to as a “client-only” install), issue these commands instead of the following ones (no test suite available):

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../openldap-2.6.4-consolidated-1.patch &&
autoconf &&

./configure --prefix=/usr     \
            --sysconfdir=/etc \
            --disable-static  \
            --enable-dynamic  \
            --enable-versioning=yes  \
            --disable-debug   \
            --disable-slapd &&

make depend &&
make
```

Then, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

There should be a dedicated user and group to take control of the **slapd** daemon after it is started. Issue the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
groupadd -g 83 ldap &&
useradd  -c "OpenLDAP Daemon Owner" \
         -d /var/lib/openldap -u 83 \
         -g ldap -s /bin/false ldap
```

Install OpenLDAP by running the following commands:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../openldap-2.6.4-consolidated-1.patch &&
autoconf &&

./configure --prefix=/usr         \
            --sysconfdir=/etc     \
            --localstatedir=/var  \
            --libexecdir=/usr/lib \
            --disable-static      \
            --enable-versioning=yes \
            --disable-debug       \
            --with-tls=openssl    \
            --with-cyrus-sasl     \
            --without-systemd     \
            --enable-dynamic      \
            --enable-crypt        \
            --enable-spasswd      \
            --enable-slapd        \
            --enable-modules      \
            --enable-rlookups     \
            --enable-backends=mod \
            --disable-sql         \
            --disable-wt          \
            --enable-overlays=mod &&

make depend &&
make
```

The tests appear to be fragile. Errors may cause the tests to abort prior to finishing, apparently due to timing issues. The tests take about 65 minutes and are processor independent. To test the results, issue: **make test**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&

sed -e "s/\.la/.so/" -i /etc/openldap/slapd.{conf,ldif}{,.default} &&

install -v -dm700 -o ldap -g ldap /var/lib/openldap     &&

install -v -dm700 -o ldap -g ldap /etc/openldap/slapd.d &&
chmod   -v    640     /etc/openldap/slapd.{conf,ldif}   &&
chown   -v  root:ldap /etc/openldap/slapd.{conf,ldif}   &&

install -v -dm755 /usr/share/doc/openldap-2.6.4 &&
cp      -vfr      doc/{drafts,rfc,guide} \
                  /usr/share/doc/openldap-2.6.4
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--disable-debug`: This switch disables the debugging code in OpenLDAP.

`--enable-dynamic`: This switch forces the OpenLDAP libraries to be dynamically linked to the executable programs.

`--enable-versioning`: This switch enables symbol versioning in the OpenLDAP libraries. Without this, some applications might generate a warning about missing symbol versions.

`--enable-crypt`: This switch enables using **crypt(3)** passwords.

`--enable-spasswd`: This switch enables SASL password verification.

`--enable-modules`: This switch enables dynamic module support.

`--enable-rlookups`: This switch enables reverse lookups of client hostnames.

`--enable-backends`: This switch enables all available backends.

`--enable-overlays`: This switch enables all available overlays.

`--disable-sql`: This switch explicitly disables the SQL backend. Omit this switch if a SQL server is installed and you are going to use a SQL backend.

`--disable-wt`: This switch explicitly disables the WiredTiger backend. Omit this switch if WiredTiger is installed and you are going to use a WiredTiger backend.

`--libexecdir=/usr/lib`: This switch controls where the `/usr/lib/openldap` directory is installed. Everything in that directory is a library, so it belongs under `/usr/lib` instead of `/usr/libexec`.

`--enable-slp`: This switch enables SLPv2 support. Use it if you have installed [OpenSLP](http://www.openslp.org/).

### Note

You can run **./configure --help** to see if there are other switch you can pass to the **configure** command to enable other options or dependency packages.

**install ...**, **chown ...**, and **chmod ...**: Having slapd configuration files and ldap databases in /var/lib/openldap readable by anyone is a SECURITY ISSUE, especially since a file stores the admin password in PLAIN TEXT. That's why mode 640 and root:ldap ownership were used. The owner is root, so only root can modify the file, and group is ldap, so that the group which owns slapd daemon could read but not modify the file in case of a security breach.

Configuring OpenLDAP
--------------------

#### Config Files

*   For LDAP client: `/etc/openldap/ldap.conf` and `~/.ldaprc`
    
*   For LDAP server, two configuration mechanisms are used: a legacy `/etc/openldap/slapd.conf` configuration file and the recommended slapd-config system, using an LDIF database stored in `/etc/openldap/slapd.d`.


#### Configuration Information

Configuring the **slapd** servers can be complex. Securing the LDAP directory, especially if you are storing non-public data such as password databases, can also be a challenging task. In order to set up OpenLDAP, you'll need to modify either the `/etc/openldap/slapd.conf` file (old method), or the `/etc/openldap/slapd.ldif` file and then use **ldapadd** to create the LDAP configuration database in `/etc/openldap/slapd.d` (recommended by the OpenLDAP documentation).

### Warning

The instructions above install an empty LDAP structure and a default `/etc/openldap/slapd.conf` file, which are suitable for testing the build and other packages using LDAP. Do not use them on a production server.

Resources to assist you with topics such as choosing a directory configuration, backend and database definitions, access control settings, running as a user other than `root` and setting a **chroot** environment include:

*   The **slapd(8)** man page.
    
*   The **slapd.conf(5)** and **slapd-config(5)** man pages.
    
*   The [OpenLDAP 2.6 Administrator's Guide](https://www.openldap.org/doc/admin26/) (also installed locally in `/usr/share/doc/openldap-2.6.4/guide/admin`).
    
*   Documents located at [https://www.openldap.org/pub/](https://www.openldap.org/pub/).
    

#### Systemd Unit

To automate the startup of the LDAP server at system bootup, install the `slapd.service` unit included in the [blfs-systemd-units-20220720](2.Important_information.md#24-blfs-systemd-units) package using the following command:

```bash
make install-slapd
```

### Note

You'll need to modify `/etc/default/slapd` to include the parameters needed for your specific configuration. See the **slapd** man page for parameter information.

#### Testing the Configuration

Start the LDAP server using systemctl:

```bash
systemctl start slapd
```

Verify access to the LDAP server with the following command:

```bash
ldapsearch -x -b '' -s base '(objectclass=*)' namingContexts
```

The expected result is:

```bash
# extended LDIF
#
# LDAPv3
# base <> with scope baseObject
# filter: (objectclass=*)
# requesting: namingContexts
#

#
dn:
namingContexts: dc=my-domain,dc=com

# search result
search: 2
result: 0 Success

# numResponses: 2
# numEntries: 1
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** ldapadd, ldapcompare, ldapdelete, ldapexop, ldapmodify, ldapmodrdn, ldappasswd, ldapsearch, ldapurl, ldapvc, ldapwhoami, slapacl, slapadd, slapauth, slapcat, slapd, slapdn, slapindex, slapmodify, slappasswd, slapschema, and slaptest

**Installed Libraries:** liblber.so, libldap.so, and several under /usr/lib/openldap

**Installed Directories:** /etc/openldap, /{usr,var}/lib/openldap, and /usr/share/doc/openldap-2.6.4

### Short Descriptions

**ldapadd**             opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and adds entries.

**ldapcompare**         opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and performs a compare using specified parameters.

**ldapdelete**          opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and deletes one or more entries.

**ldapexop**            issues the LDAP extended operation specified by oid or one of the special keywords whoami, cancel, or refresh.

**ldapmodify**          opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and modifies entries.

**ldapmodrdn**          opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and modifies the RDN of entries.

**ldappasswd**          is a tool used to set the password of an LDAP user.

**ldapsearch**          opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and performs a search using specified parameters.

**ldapurl**             is a command that allows to either compose or decompose LDAP URIs.

**ldapvc**              verifies LDAP credentials.

**ldapwhoami**          opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds and displays whoami information.

**slapacl**             is used to check the behavior of slapd by verifying access to directory data according to the access control list directives defined in its configuration.

**slapadd**             is used to add entries specified in LDAP Directory Interchange Format (LDIF) to an LDAP database.

**slapauth**            is used to check the behavior of the slapd in mapping identities for authentication and authorization purposes, as specified in slapd.conf.

**slapcat**             is used to generate an LDAP LDIF output based upon the contents of a slapd database.

**slapd**               is the standalone LDAP server.

**slapdn**              checks a list of string-represented DNs based on schema syntax.

**slapindex**           is used to regenerate slapd indexes based upon the current contents of a database.

**slapmodify**          modifies entries in a slapd database.

**slappasswd**          is an OpenLDAP password utility.

**slapschema**          is used to check schema compliance of the contents of a slapd database.

**slaptest**            checks the sanity of the `slapd.conf` file.

`liblber.so`            is a set of Lightweight Basic Encoding Rules routines. These routines are used by the LDAP library routines to encode and decode LDAP protocol elements using the (slightly simplified) Basic Encoding Rules defined by LDAP. They are not normally used directly by an LDAP application program except in the handling of controls and extended operations.

`libldap.so`            supports the LDAP programs and provide functionality for other programs interacting with LDAP.


## 23.2 Unbound-1.17.1
--------

Introduction to Unbound
-----------------------

Unbound is a validating, recursive, and caching DNS resolver. It is designed as a set of modular components that incorporate modern features, such as enhanced security (DNSSEC) validation, Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6), and a client resolver library API as an integral part of the architecture.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://nlnetlabs.nl/downloads/unbound/unbound-1.17.1.tar.gz](https://nlnetlabs.nl/downloads/unbound/unbound-1.17.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: bb96df2dc579c11ada537dbc52781abc
    
*   Download size: 6.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 141 MB (with docs; add 10 MB for tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with docs; add 0.4 SBU for tests)
    

### Unbound Dependencies

#### Optional

[libevent-2.1.12](17.Networking_libraries.md#177-libevent-2112), [Nettle-3.8.1](4.Security.md#416-nettle-381), [Python-2.7.18](13.Programming.md#1322-python-2718), [sphinx-6.1.3](13.Programming.md#1324-python-modules) (for Python bindings documentation), [SWIG-4.1.1](13.Programming.md#1332-swig-411) (for Python bindings), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) (for html documentation), and [dnstap](https://dnstap.info/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/unbound](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/unbound)

Installation of Unbound
-----------------------

There should be a dedicated user and group to take control of the **unbound** daemon after it is started. Issue the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
groupadd -g 88 unbound &&
useradd -c "Unbound DNS Resolver" -d /var/lib/unbound -u 88 \
        -g unbound -s /bin/false unbound
```

Install Unbound by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr     \
            --sysconfdir=/etc \
            --disable-static  \
            --with-pidfile=/run/unbound.pid &&
make
```

If you have [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) package installed and want to build html documentation, run the following command:

```bash
make doc
```

To test the results, issue **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
mv -v /usr/sbin/unbound-host /usr/bin/
```

If you built the documentation, install it by running the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/unbound-1.17.1 &&
install -v -m644 doc/html/* /usr/share/doc/unbound-1.17.1
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--with-libevent`: This option enables libevent support allowing use of large outgoing port ranges.

`--with-pyunbound`: This option enables building of the Python bindings.

Configuring Unbound
-------------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/unbound/unbound.conf`

#### Configuration Information

In the default configuration, **unbound** will bind to localhost (127.0.0.1 IP address) and allow recursive queries only from localhost clients. If you want to use **unbound** for local DNS resolution, run the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
echo "nameserver 127.0.0.1" > /etc/resolv.conf
```

If you are using a DHCP client for connecting to a network, `/etc/resolv.conf` gets overwritten with values provided by DHCP server. You can override this, for example in [DHCP-4.4.3-P1](14.Connecting_to_a_network.md#143-dhcp-443-p1), by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
sed -i '/request /i\supersede domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;' \
       /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf
```

For advanced configuration see `/etc/unbound/unbound.conf` file and the documentation.

When Unbound is installed, some package builds fail if the file `/etc/unbound/root.key` is not found. Create this file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
unbound-anchor
```

#### Systemd Unit

If you want the Unbound server to start automatically when the system is booted, install the `unbound.service` unit included in the [blfs-systemd-units-20220720](2.Important_information.md#24-blfs-systemd-units) package:

```bash
make install-unbound
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** unbound, unbound-anchor, unbound-checkconf, unbound-control, unbound-control-setup, and unbound-host

**Installed Library:** libunbound.so and (optional) /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/_unbound.so

**Installed Directories:** /etc/unbound and /usr/share/doc/unbound-1.17.1 (optional)

### Short Descriptions

**unbound**                     is a DNS resolver daemon.

**unbound-anchor**              performs setup or update of the root trust anchor for DNSSEC validation.

**unbound-checkconf**           checks the **unbound** configuration file for syntax and other errors.

**unbound-control**             performs remote administration on the **unbound** DNS resolver.

**unbound-control-setup**       generates a self-signed certificate and private keys for the server and client.

**unbound-host**                is a DNS lookup utility similar to **host** from [BIND Utilities-9.18.12](16.Networking_utilities.md#162-bind-utilities-91812).

`libunbound.so`                 provides the Unbound API functions to programs.
