
# 42. Multimedia Libraries and Drivers
--------

Many multimedia programs require libraries and/or drivers in order to function properly. The packages in this section fall into this category. Generally you only need to install these if you are installing a program which has the library listed as either a requirement, or as an option to enable it to support certain functionality.


## 42.1 ALSA-1.2.7
--------

The Linux kernel now provides ALSA support by default. However, applications need to interface to that capability. The following six sections of the book deal with the separate components of ALSA: the libraries, the plugins, the utilities, the tools, the firmware and the OSS compatibility libraries.


## 42.2 alsa-lib-1.2.8
--------

Introduction to ALSA Library
----------------------------

The ALSA Library package contains the ALSA library used by programs (including ALSA Utilities) requiring access to the ALSA sound interface.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/lib/alsa-lib-1.2.8.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/lib/alsa-lib-1.2.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/lib/alsa-lib-1.2.8.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/lib/alsa-lib-1.2.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: ab32de4b6054d7ab23723f8d85e50a27
    
*   Download size: 1.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 45 MB (with tests and docs)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU (with tests and docs)
    

### ALSA Library Dependencies

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), [Python-2.7.18](13.Programming.md#1322-python-2718), and [alsa-ucm-conf](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/lib/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-lib](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-lib)

Kernel Configuration
--------------------

If needed, enable the following options in the kernel configuration and recompile the kernel:

```bash
Device Drivers --->
    <*/M> Sound card support --->                  [CONFIG_SOUND]
        <*/M> Advanced Linux Sound Architecture ---> [CONFIG_SND]
                Select settings and drivers appropriate for your hardware.
```

In the Device Drivers ⇒ Sound card support ⇒ Advanced Linux Sound Architecture section of the kernel configuration, select the settings and drivers appropriate for your hardware. If necessary, recompile and install your new kernel.

Installation of ALSA Library
----------------------------

Install ALSA Library by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure &&
make
```

If you have Doxygen installed and you wish to build the library API documentation, run the following commands from the top-level directory of the source tree:

```bash
make doc
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

To install the API documentation, run the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -d -m755 /usr/share/doc/alsa-lib-1.2.8/html/search &&
install -v -m644 doc/doxygen/html/*.* \
                /usr/share/doc/alsa-lib-1.2.8/html &&
install -v -m644 doc/doxygen/html/search/* \
                /usr/share/doc/alsa-lib-1.2.8/html/search
```

Configuring ALSA Library
------------------------

#### Config Files

`~/.asoundrc` and `/etc/asound.conf`

#### Configuration Information

The default `alsa.conf` is adequate for most installations. For extra functionality and/or advanced control of your sound device, you may need to create additional configuration files. For information on the available configuration parameters, visit [https://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Asoundrc](https://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Asoundrc).

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** aserver

**Installed Library:** libasound.so and libatopology.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/alsa, /usr/share/alsa and /usr/share/doc/alsa-lib-1.2.8

### Short Descriptions

**aserver**             &emsp; is the ALSA server

`libasound.so`          &emsp; contains the ALSA API functions

`libatopology.so`       &emsp; contains API functions for the ALSA topologies.


## 42.3 alsa-plugins-1.2.7.1
--------

Introduction to ALSA Plugins
----------------------------

The ALSA Plugins package contains plugins for various audio libraries and sound servers.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.7.1.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.7.1.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.7.1.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/plugins/alsa-plugins-1.2.7.1.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 8fb7e05b84c87f30655a8997a9a983d1
    
*   Download size: 400 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 5.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### ALSA Plugins Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128)

#### Optional

[FFmpeg-5.1.2](44.Video_utilities.md#441-ffmpeg-512), [libsamplerate-0.2.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4240-libsamplerate-022), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), [Speex-1.2.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4254-speex-121), [JACK](https://jackaudio.org/), [libavtp](https://github.com/AVnu/libavtp/), and [maemo](http://maemo.org/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-plugins](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-plugins)

Installation of ALSA Plugins
----------------------------

Install ALSA Plugins by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --sysconfdir=/etc &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** Numerous libasound_module_`<module>`.so modules including conf_pulse, ctl_arcam_av, ctl_oss, ctl_pulse, pcm_a52, pcm_jack, pcm_oss, pcm_pulse, pcm_speex, pcm_upmix, pcm_usb_stream, pcm_vdownmix, rate_lavrate*, rate_samplerate*, and rate_speexrate*

**Installed Directories:** /usr/lib/alsa-lib

### Short Descriptions

`libasound_module_pcm_oss.so`       &emsp; Allows native ALSA applications to run on OSS.

`libasound_module_pcm_upmix.so`     &emsp; Allows upmixing sound to 4 or 6 channels.

`libasound_module_pcm_vdownmix.so`  &emsp; Allows downmixing sound from 4-6 channels to 2 channel stereo output.

`libasound_module_pcm_jack.so`      &emsp; Allows native ALSA applications to work with **jackd**.

`libasound_module_pcm_pulse.so`     &emsp; Allows native ALSA applications to access a PulseAudio sound daemon.

`libasound_module_pcm_a52.so`       &emsp; Converts S16 linear sound format to A52 compressed format and sends it to an SPDIF output.

`libasound_module_rate_samplerate.so`   &emsp; Provides an external rate converter through `libsamplerate`.


## 42.4 alsa-utils-1.2.8
--------

Introduction to ALSA Utilities
------------------------------

The ALSA Utilities package contains various utilities which are useful for controlling your sound card.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/utils/alsa-utils-1.2.8.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/utils/alsa-utils-1.2.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/utils/alsa-utils-1.2.8.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/utils/alsa-utils-1.2.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 51175f5cd413daf7009a80684c65113d
    
*   Download size: 1.5 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 15 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### ALSA Utilities Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128)

#### Optional

[docutils-0.19](13.Programming.md#1324-python-modules), [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310), [libsamplerate-0.2.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4240-libsamplerate-022), [xmlto-0.0.28](49.Extensible_markup_language_XML.md#496-xmlto-0028), and [Dialog](https://hightek.org/projects/dialog/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-utils](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-utils)

Installation of ALSA Utilities
------------------------------

Install ALSA Utilities by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --disable-alsaconf \
            --disable-bat   \
            --disable-xmlto \
            --with-curses=ncursesw &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-alsaconf`: This switch disables building the **alsaconf** configuration tool which is incompatible with Udev.

`--disable-xmlto`: Omit this switch if you have installed [xmlto-0.0.28](49.Extensible_markup_language_XML.md#496-xmlto-0028) and wish to regenerate the man pages.

`--disable-bat`: Omit this switch if you have installed [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310) and wish to install the Basic Audio Tester (BAT).

`--with-curses=ncursesw`: This switch forces the use of wide-character ncurses libraries.

Configuring ALSA Utilities
--------------------------

#### Config Files

`/var/lib/alsa/asound.state`

#### Configuration Information

Note that all channels of your sound card are muted by default. You can use the **alsamixer** program to change this. Use **speaker-test** to check that your settings have been applied correctly. You should hear “pink noise” on your speakers.

The `alsactl` program is normally run from a standard udev rule. The first time it is run, it will complain that there is no state in `/var/lib/alsa/asound.state`. You can prevent this by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
alsactl -L store
```

The volume settings should be restored from the saved state by Udev when the device is detected (during boot or when plugged in for USB devices).

All sound devices are not accessible for any user except `root` and members of the `audio` group. Add any users that might use the sound devices to that group:

```bash
usermod -a -G audio <username>
```

### Note

You may need to log out and back in again to refresh your group memberships. '**su `<username>`**' should work as well.

On systems which have multiple sound cards, you may need to adjust the default audio device so that you can get output from your speakers. To set the default device, first check the `/proc/asound/cards` file to determine which number you need to set. After you know this information, set the default card with the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /etc/asound.conf << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/asound.conf

defaults.pcm.card 1
defaults.ctl.card 1

# End /etc/asound.conf
EOF
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** aconnect, alsactl, alsaloop, alsamixer, alsatplg, alsaucm, alsa-info.sh, amidi, amixer, aplay, aplaymidi, arecord (symlink), arecordmidi, aseqdump, aseqnet, axfer, iecset, and speaker-test

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directories:** /usr/share/sounds/alsa and /var/lib/alsa

### Short Descriptions

**aconnect**            &emsp; is a utility for connecting and disconnecting two existing ports in the ALSA sequencer system.

**alsactl**             &emsp; is used to control advanced settings for ALSA sound card drivers. Use this if alsamixer cannot utilize all of your sound card's features.

**alsaloop**            &emsp; allows creation of a PCM loopback between a PCM capture device and a PCM playback device.

**alsamixer**           &emsp; is an Ncurses based mixer program for use with the ALSA sound card drivers.

**alsatplg**            &emsp; is a utility used to compile topology configuration files into binary files for kernel drivers.

**alsaucm**             &emsp; allows applications to access the hardware in an abstracted manner.

**amidi**               &emsp; is used to read from and write to ALSA RawMIDI ports.

**amixer**              &emsp; allows command-line control of the mixers for the ALSA sound card drivers.

**aplay**               &emsp; is a command-line soundfile player for the ALSA sound card drivers.

**aplaymidi**           &emsp; is a command-line utility that plays the specified MIDI file(s) to one or more ALSA sequencer ports.

**arecord**             &emsp; is a command-line soundfile recorder for the ALSA sound card drivers.

**arecordmidi**         &emsp; is a command-line utility that records a standard MIDI file from one or more ALSA sequencer ports.

**aseqdump**            &emsp; is a command-line utility that prints the sequencer events it receives as text.

**aseqnet**             &emsp; is an ALSA sequencer client which sends and receives event packets over a network.

**axfer**               &emsp; is a command-line recorder and player used to transfer audio frames between sound devices and files.

**iecset**              &emsp; is a small utility to set or dump the IEC958 (or so-called “S/PDIF”) status bits of the specified sound card via the ALSA control API.

**speaker-test**        &emsp; is a command-line speaker test tone generator for ALSA.


## 42.5 alsa-tools-1.2.5
--------

Introduction to ALSA Tools
--------------------------

The ALSA Tools package contains advanced tools for certain sound cards.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/tools/alsa-tools-1.2.5.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/tools/alsa-tools-1.2.5.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/tools/alsa-tools-1.2.5.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/tools/alsa-tools-1.2.5.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: ce632a6c89ed47ee74ba415276a6a3cc
    
*   Download size: 1.8 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 26 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.4 SBU
    

### ALSA Tools Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128)

#### Optional

[GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433) (to build **echomixer**, **envy24control** and **rmedigicontrol**), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) (to build **hdajackretask**) and [FLTK-1.3.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2511-fltk-138) (to build **hdspconf** and **hdspmixer**)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-tools](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-tools)

Installation of ALSA Tools
--------------------------

### Note

When installing multiple packages in a script, the installation needs to be done as the root user. There are three general options that can be used to do this:

1.  Run the entire script as the root user (not recommended).
    
2.  Use the **sudo** command from the [Sudo-1.9.13p1](4.Security.md#425-sudo-1913p1) package.
    
3.  Use **su -c "command arguments"** (quotes required) which will ask for the root password for every iteration of the loop.
    

One way to handle this situation is to create a short **bash** function that automatically selects the appropriate method. Once the command is set in the environment, it does not need to be set again.

```bash
as_root()
{
  if   [ $EUID = 0 ];        then $*
  elif [ -x /usr/bin/sudo ]; then sudo $*
  else                            su -c \\"$*\\"
  fi
}

export -f as_root
```

First, start a subshell that will exit on error:

```bash
bash -e
```

Now, remove a tool that needs Qt2 or 3 and two unneeded files (for the BLFS instructions below):

```bash
rm -rf qlo10k1 Makefile gitcompile
```

The ALSA Tools package is only needed by those with advanced requirements for their sound card. The tools can be built all together at once, but if only a subset is needed, you need to **cd** into the directory of each tool you wish to compile and run the commands. Here, we present instructions to build all tools.

Install all ALSA Tools by running the following commands:

```bash
for tool in *
do
  case $tool in
    seq )
      tool_dir=seq/sbiload
    ;;
    * )
      tool_dir=$tool
    ;;
  esac

  pushd $tool_dir
    ./configure --prefix=/usr
    make
    as_root make install
    as_root /sbin/ldconfig
  popd

done
unset tool tool_dir
```

Finally, exit the shell that was started earlier:

```bash
exit
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** as10k1, cspctl, dl10k1, echomixer, envy24control, hda-verb, hdajackretask, hdajacksensetest, hdspconf, hdsploader, hdspmixer, hwmixvolume, init_audigy, init_audigy_eq10, init_live, lo10k1, ld10k1, ld10k1d, mixartloader, pcxhrloader, rmedigicontrol, sbiload, sscape_ctl, us428control, usx2yloader, and vxloader

**Installed Library:** liblo10k1.so

**Installed Directories:** /etc/hotplug, /usr/include/lo10k1, /usr/share/ld10k1, and /usr/share/sounds

### Short Descriptions

**as10k1**              &emsp; is an assembler for the emu10k1 DSP chip present in the Creative SB Live, PCI 512, and emu APS sound cards. It is used to make audio effects such as a flanger, chorus or reverb.

**cspctl**              &emsp; is an SB16/AWE32 Creative Signal Processor (ASP/CSP) control program.

**echomixer**           &emsp; is the Linux equivalent of the Echoaudio console application from Echoaudio. It is a tool to control all the features of any Echoaudio soundcard. This includes clock sources, input and output gains, mixers, etc.

**envy24control**       &emsp; is a control tool for Envy24 (ice1712) based sound cards.

**hdajackretask**       &emsp; is a GUI to make it easy to retask your jacks - e g, turn your Mic jack into an extra Headphone, or why not make them both line outs and connect them to your surround receiver.

**hda-verb**            &emsp; is a small program to send HD-audio commands to the given ALSA hwdep device on the hd-audio interface.

**hdspconf**            &emsp; is a GUI to control the Hammerfall HDSP Alsa Settings. Up to four hdsp cards are supported.

**hdsploader**          &emsp; is used to load the firmware required by the Hammerfall HDSP sound cards.

**hdspmixer**           &emsp; is the Linux equivalent of the Totalmix application from RME. It is a tool to control the advanced routing features of the RME Hammerfall DSP soundcard series.

**hwmixvolume**         &emsp; allows you to control the volume of individual streams on sound cards that use hardware mixing.

**init_audigy\***       &emsp; are tools used to initialize Creative Sound Blaster Audigy-series cards.

**init_live**           &emsp; is a tool used to initialize Creative Sound Blaster Live cards.

**ld10k1**              &emsp; is the server of a EMU10K{1,2} patch loader for ALSA.

**lo10k1**              &emsp; is the client of a EMU10K{1,2} patch loader for ALSA.

**dl10k1**              &emsp; loads config dumps generated by **lo10k1** and **ld10k1**.

**ld10k1d**             &emsp; is an init script for the **ld10k1** patch loader.

**mixartloader**        &emsp; is a helper program to load the firmware binaries onto the Digigram's miXart board sound drivers. The following modules require this program: snd-mixart. These drivers don't work properly at all until the certain firmwares are loaded, i.e. no PCM nor mixer devices will appear.

**pcxhrloader**         &emsp; is a helper program to load the firmware binaries onto Digigram's pcxhr compatible board sound drivers. The following modules require this program: snd-pcxhr. These drivers don't work properly at all until certain firmwares are loaded, i.e. no PCM nor mixer devices will appear.

**rmedigicontrol**      &emsp; is a control tool for RME Digi32 and RME Digi96 sound cards. It provides a graphical frontend for all the sound card controls and switches.

**sbiload**             &emsp; is an OPL2/3 FM instrument loader for the ALSA sequencer.

**sscape_ctl**          &emsp; is an ALSA SoundScape control utility.

**us428control**        &emsp; is a Tascam US-428 control program.

**usx2yloader**         &emsp; is a helper program to load the 2nd Phase firmware binaries onto the Tascam USX2Y USB sound cards. It has proven to work so far for the US122, US224 and US428. The snd-usb-usx2y module requires this program.

**vxloader**            &emsp; is a helper program to load the firmware binaries onto the Digigram's VX-board sound drivers. The following modules require this program: snd-vx222, snd-vxpocket, snd-vxp440. These drivers don't work properly at all until the certain firmwares are loaded, i.e. no PCM nor mixer devices will appear.


## 42.6 alsa-firmware-1.2.4
--------

Introduction to ALSA Firmware
-----------------------------

The ALSA Firmware package contains firmware for certain sound cards.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/firmware/alsa-firmware-1.2.4.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/firmware/alsa-firmware-1.2.4.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/firmware/alsa-firmware-1.2.4.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/firmware/alsa-firmware-1.2.4.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: ee6c1d24a1a4ac1d86992b408ed710a2
    
*   Download size: 4.9 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 39 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### ALSA Firmware Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-tools-1.2.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#425-alsa-tools-125)

#### Optional

[AS31](http://www.pjrc.com/tech/8051/) (for rebuilding the firmware from source)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-firmware](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-firmware)

Installation of ALSA Firmware
-----------------------------

The ALSA Firmware package is only needed by those with advanced requirements for their sound card. See the README for configure options.

Install ALSA Firmware by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directories:** Several directories in /lib/firmware and /usr/share/alsa/firmware


## 42.7 alsa-oss-1.1.8
--------

Introduction to alsa-oss
------------------------

The alsa-oss package contains the alsa-oss compatibility library. This is used by programs which wish to use the alsa-oss sound interface.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/oss-lib/alsa-oss-1.1.8.tar.bz2](https://www.alsa-project.org/files/pub/oss-lib/alsa-oss-1.1.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/oss-lib/alsa-oss-1.1.8.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.alsa-project.org/pub/oss-lib/alsa-oss-1.1.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9ec4bb783fdce19032aace086d65d874
    
*   Download size: 288 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.0 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### ALSA OSS Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-oss](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/alsa-oss)

Installation of ALSA OSS
------------------------

Install ALSA OSS by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** aoss

**Installed Libraries:** libalsatoss.so, libaoss.so, and libossredir.a

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

**aoss**                &emsp; is a simple wrapper script which facilitates the use of the ALSA oss compatibility library. It just sets the appropriate `LD_PRELOAD` path and then runs the command.


## 42.8 AudioFile-0.3.6
--------

Introduction to AudioFile
-------------------------

The AudioFile package contains the audio file libraries and two sound file support programs useful to support basic sound file formats.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://download.gnome.org/sources/audiofile/0.3/audiofile-0.3.6.tar.xz](https://download.gnome.org/sources/audiofile/0.3/audiofile-0.3.6.tar.xz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.acc.umu.se/pub/gnome/sources/audiofile/0.3/audiofile-0.3.6.tar.xz](ftp://ftp.acc.umu.se/pub/gnome/sources/audiofile/0.3/audiofile-0.3.6.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 235dde14742317328f0109e9866a8008
    
*   Download size: 520 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 18 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.6 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/audiofile-0.3.6-consolidated_patches-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/audiofile-0.3.6-consolidated_patches-1.patch)
    

### AudioFile Dependencies

#### Required

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128)

#### Recommended

[FLAC-1.4.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4212-flac-142)

#### Optional

[asciidoc-10.2.0](13.Programming.md#1324-python-modules) and [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/audiofile](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/audiofile)

Installation of AudioFile
-------------------------

Install AudioFile by running the following commands:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../audiofile-0.3.6-consolidated_patches-1.patch &&
autoreconf -fiv                             &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static  &&

make
```

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**. Note that the tests will fail if the --disable-static option is used and tests are executed before **make install**. You have three options:

(a) configure without --disable-static, run the tests, but do not install, then start a fresh build using --disable-static just for installing the package.

(b) configure with --disable-static, but only run the tests after the package is installed.

(c) configure with --disable-static, but only run the tests after a DESTDIR install.

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** sfconvert and sfinfo

**Installed Libraries:** libaudiofile.so

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

**sfinfo**              &emsp; displays the sound file format, audio encoding, sampling rate and duration for audio formats supported by this library.

**sfconvert**           &emsp; converts sound file formats where the original format and destination format are supported by this library.

`libaudiofile.so`       &emsp; contains functions used by programs to support AIFF, AIFF-compressed, Sun/NeXT, WAV and BIC audio formats.


## 42.9 FAAC-1_30
--------

Introduction to FAAC
--------------------

FAAC is an encoder for a lossy sound compression scheme specified in MPEG-2 Part 7 and MPEG-4 Part 3 standards and known as Advanced Audio Coding (AAC). This encoder is useful for producing files that can be played back on iPod. Moreover, iPod does not understand other sound compression schemes in video files.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/knik0/faac/archive/1_30/faac-1_30.tar.gz](https://github.com/knik0/faac/archive/1_30/faac-1_30.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 8d61e6d55088e599aa91532d5e6995b0
    
*   Download size: 240 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 4.7 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/faac](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/faac)

Installation of FAAC
--------------------

Install FAAC by running the following commands:

```bash
./bootstrap                                &&
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite. However, basic functionality can be tested by encoding a sample WAV file (the sample file is installed by the [alsa-utils-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#424-alsa-utils-128) package:

```bash
./frontend/faac -o Front_Left.mp4 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Left.wav
```

Then, decode the result using the **faad** program from the [FAAD2-2.10.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4210-faad2-2101) package and play back the decoded file (requires the **aplay** program from the [alsa-utils-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#424-alsa-utils-128) package:

```bash
faad Front_Left.mp4
aplay Front_Left.wav
```

**aplay** should identify the file as “Signed 16 bit Little Endian, Rate 48000 Hz, Stereo”, and you should hear the words “front left”.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Other AAC encoders
------------------

The quality of FAAC is not up to par with the best AAC encoders currently available. Also, it only supports AAC and not High Efficiency AAC (also known as aacPlus), which provides better quality at low bitrates by means of using the “spectral band replication” technology. There are the following alternative programs for producing AAC and HE-AAC streams:

*   [Nero AAC Codec](http://www.nero.com/eng/nero-aac-codec.html): available only in the binary form, the command-line AAC and HE-AAC encoders for Linux are in the same archive as the Windows application.
    
*   [3GPP Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec](https://portal.3gpp.org/desktopmodules/Specifications/SpecificationDetails.aspx?specificationId=1459): available in the source form, can encode only HE-AAC up to 48 kbps out of the box, but the maximum bitrate can be changed by editing the tuning table in the `FloatFR_sbrenclib/src/sbr_main.c` file.
    

Note, however, that iPod supports only Low Complexity AAC profile, which is the default in FAAC, but may not be the default in Nero AAC Encoder and is completely unavailable in the 3GPP encoder.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** faac

**Installed Libraries:** libfaac.so and libmp4v2.so

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

**faac**                &emsp; is a command-line AAC encoder.

`libfaac.so`            &emsp; contains functions for encoding AAC streams.

`libmp4v2.so`           &emsp; contains functions for creating and manipulating MP4 files.


## 42.10 FAAD2-2.10.1
--------

Introduction to FAAD2
---------------------

FAAD2 is a decoder for a lossy sound compression scheme specified in MPEG-2 Part 7 and MPEG-4 Part 3 standards and known as Advanced Audio Coding (AAC).

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/knik0/faad2/archive/2.10.1/faad2-2.10.1.tar.gz](https://github.com/knik0/faad2/archive/2.10.1/faad2-2.10.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 62a0427c6ff3a273aa720e27da166758
    
*   Download size: 788 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 14 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Sample AAC file: [https://www.nch.com.au/acm/sample.aac](https://www.nch.com.au/acm/sample.aac) (7 KB)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/faad2](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/faad2)

Installation of FAAD2
---------------------

Install FAAD2 by running the following commands:

```bash
./bootstrap                                &&
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite. However, basic functionality can be tested by decoding the sample AAC file:

```bash
./frontend/faad -o sample.wav ../sample.aac
```

This should display a copyright message and the following information about the sample file:

```bash
sample.aac file info:
ADTS, 4.608 sec, 13 kbps, 16000 Hz

  ---------------------
 | Config:  2 Ch       |
  ---------------------
 | Ch |    Position    |
  ---------------------
 | 00 | Left front     |
 | 01 | Right front    |
  ---------------------
```

Now play the result (requires the **aplay** program from the [alsa-utils-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#424-alsa-utils-128) package):

```bash
aplay sample.wav
```

**aplay** should identify the file as “Signed 16 bit Little Endian, Rate 16000 Hz, Stereo”, and you should hear some piano notes.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** faad

**Installed Library:** libfaad.so and libfaad_drm.so

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

**faad**                &emsp; is a command-line utility for decoding AAC and MP4 files.

`libfaad.so`            &emsp; contains functions for decoding AAC streams.


## 42.11 fdk-aac-2.0.2
--------

Introduction to fdk-aac
-----------------------

fdk-aac package provides the Fraunhofer FDK AAC library, which is purported to be a high quality Advanced Audio Coding implementation.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/opencore-amr/fdk-aac-2.0.2.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/opencore-amr/fdk-aac-2.0.2.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: b41222194b31f570b3132bd622a9aef6
    
*   Download size: 2.8 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 38 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.6 SBU (Using parallelism=4)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/fdk-aac](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/fdk-aac)

Installation of fdk-aac
-----------------------

Install fdk-aac by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libfdk-aac.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/fdk-aac

### Short Descriptions

`libfdk-aac.so`         &emsp; provides the functions used to encode audio in AAC format.


## 42.12 FLAC-1.4.2
--------

Introduction to FLAC
--------------------

FLAC is an audio CODEC similar to MP3, but lossless, meaning that audio is compressed without losing any information.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/flac/flac-1.4.2.tar.xz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/flac/flac-1.4.2.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: ca9140f37b286d2571e37d66aae50f92
    
*   Download size: 1.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 21 MB (additional 165 MB to run the test suite)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU (additional 0.6 SBU to run the test suite)
    

### FLAC Dependencies

#### Optional

[libogg-1.3.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4238-libogg-135), [DocBook-utils-0.6.14](48.Standard_generalized_markup_language_SGML.md#487-docbook-utils-0614), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), and [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/flac](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/flac)

Installation of FLAC
--------------------

Install FLAC by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr                                \
            --disable-thorough-tests                     \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/flac-1.4.2          &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**. Note that if you passed the `--enable-exhaustive-tests` and `--enable-valgrind-testing` parameters to **configure** and then run the test suite, it will take a very long time (up to 300 SBUs) and use about 375 MB of disk space.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-thorough-tests`: This parameter is used so that the test suite will complete in a reasonable amount of time. Remove it if you desire more extensive tests.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** flac and metaflac

**Installed Libraries:** libFLAC.so and libFLAC++.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/FLAC, /usr/include/FLAC++ and /usr/share/doc/flac-1.4.2

### Short Descriptions

**flac**                &emsp; is a command-line utility for encoding, decoding and converting FLAC files.

**metaflac**            &emsp; is a program for listing, adding, removing, or editing metadata in one or more FLAC files.

`libFLAC{,++}.so`       &emsp; these libraries provide native FLAC and Ogg FLAC C/C++ APIs for programs utilizing FLAC.


## 42.13 frei0r-plugins-1.8.0
--------

Introduction to Frei0r-plugins
------------------------------

Frei0r is a minimalistic plugin API for video effects. Note that the 0 in the name is a zero, not a capital letter o.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://files.dyne.org/frei0r/releases/frei0r-plugins-1.8.0.tar.gz](https://files.dyne.org/frei0r/releases/frei0r-plugins-1.8.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 45ffe53925ce0a90ce1d838c05e0a3c0
    
*   Download size: 804 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 40 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU
    

### Frei0r-plugins Dependencies

#### Recommended

[gavl-1.4.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4214-gavl-140)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) and [opencv-4.7.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1028-opencv-470)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/frei0r](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/frei0r)

Installation of Frei0r-plugins
------------------------------

Install Frei0r by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -vp build &&
cd        build &&

cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release  \
      -Wno-dev ..                 &&

make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`-DWITHOUT_OPENCV=TRUE`: This option instructs the make procedure to disable building plugins dependent upon opencv.

`-DWITHOUT_GAVL=TRUE`: This option instructs the make procedure to disable building plugins dependent upon gavl.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** None

**Installed Libraries:** Over 130 video effects plugins

**Installed Directories:** /usr/lib/frei0r-1


## 42.14 gavl-1.4.0
--------

Introduction to Gavl
--------------------

Gavl is short for Gmerlin Audio Video Library. It is a low level library that handles the details of audio and video formats like colorspaces, samplerates, multichannel configurations etc. It provides standardized definitions for those formats as well as container structures for carrying audio samples or video images inside an application.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gmerlin/gavl-1.4.0.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gmerlin/gavl-1.4.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 2752013a817fbc43ddf13552215ec2c0
    
*   Download size: 4.4 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 50 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.8 SBU
    

### Gavl Dependencies

#### Required

[libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gavl](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gavl)

Installation of Gavl
--------------------

Install Gavl by running the following commands:

```bash
LIBS=-lm                      \
./configure --prefix=/usr     \
            --without-doxygen \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/gavl-1.4.0 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`LIBS=-lm`: This variable ensures the math library is searched when linking.

`--without-doxygen`: This switch disables use of Doxygen. Omit if Doxygen is installed and you wish to build the API documentation.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** None

**Installed Libraries:** libgavl.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/gavl and /usr/share/doc/gavl-1.4.0

### Short Descriptions

`libgavl.so`            &emsp; is the Gmerlin Audio Video Library.


## 42.15 gstreamer-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to gstreamer
-------------------------

gstreamer is a streaming media framework that enables applications to share a common set of plugins for tasks such as video encoding and decoding, audio encoding and decoding, audio and video filters, audio visualisation, web streaming and anything else that streams in real-time or otherwise. This package only provides base functionality and libraries. You may need at least [gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220) and one of Good, Bad, Ugly or Libav plugins.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gstreamer/gstreamer-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gstreamer/gstreamer-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: fb69587308e03e15c1b9a026a7b591d6
    
*   Download size: 1.7 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 46 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### gstreamer Dependencies

#### Required

[GLib-2.74.5](9.General_libraries.md#913-glib-2745)

#### Recommended

[gobject-introspection-1.74.0](9.General_libraries.md#916-gobject-introspection-1740)

#### Optional

[GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) (for examples), [Gsl-2.7.1](9.General_libraries.md#917-gsl-271) (used by one test if installed), [libunwind-1.6.2](9.General_libraries.md#962-libunwind-162), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [bash-completion](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion/), [hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc/), and [libdw](https://sourceware.org/elfutils/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gstreamer10](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gstreamer10)

Installation of gstreamer
-------------------------

Install gstreamer by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dgst_debug=false   \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS" &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**.

### Caution

If you are reinstalling gstreamer from a previous version, it is best if you remove the prior version, including plugins, before installing the new version. If there is a mixture of versions installed, using processes may hang or not work properly. As the `root` user:

```bash
rm -rf /usr/bin/gst-* /usr/{lib,libexec}/gstreamer-1.0
```

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** gst-inspect-1.0, gst-launch-1.0, gst-stats-1.0, gst-tester-1.0, and gst-typefind-1.0

**Installed Libraries:** libgstbase-1.0.so, libgstcheck-1.0.so, libgstcontroller-1.0.so, libgstnet-1.0.so, and libgstreamer-1.0.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/{include,lib,libexec,share}/gstreamer-1.0

### Short Descriptions

**gst-inspect-1.0**     &emsp; is a tool that prints out information on available gstreamer plugins, information about a particular plugin, or information about a particular element.

**gst-launch-1.0**      &emsp; is a tool that builds and runs basic gstreamer pipelines.

**gst-stats-1.0**       &emsp; is a tool used to gather statistics about gstreamer operations.

**gst-tester-1.0**      &emsp; runs a test plan in TAP compatible format while integrating with the meson test harness.

**gst-typefind-1.0**    &emsp; uses the gstreamer type finding system to determine the relevant gstreamer plugin to parse or decode files, and the corresponding MIME type.

`libgstbase-1.0.so`     &emsp; provides some base classes to be extended by elements and utility classes that are most useful for plugin developers.

`libgstcheck-1.0.so`    &emsp; provides functionality for writing unit tests that use the check framework.

`libgstcontroller-1.0.so`       &emsp; provides functionality to animate element properties over time.

`libgstnet-1.0.so`      &emsp; provides network elements and objects.

`libgstreamer-1.0.so`   &emsp; provides all of the core gstreamer services, including initialization, plugin management and types, as well as the object hierarchy that defines elements and bins, along with some more specialized elements.


## 42.16 gst-plugins-base-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to GStreamer Base Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

The GStreamer Base Plug-ins is a well-groomed and well-maintained collection of GStreamer plug-ins and elements, spanning the range of possible types of elements one would want to write for GStreamer. You will need at least one of Good, Bad, Ugly or Libav plugins for GStreamer applications to function properly.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-base/gst-plugins-base-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-base/gst-plugins-base-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: c559f23bb746bda732e85ba7b76c2074
    
*   Download size: 2.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 86 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.8 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### GStreamer Base Plug-ins Dependencies

#### Required

[gstreamer-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4215-gstreamer-1220)

#### Recommended

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [CDParanoia-III-10.2](43.Audio_utilities.md#432-cdparanoia-iii-102) (for building the CDDA plugin), [gobject-introspection-1.74.0](9.General_libraries.md#916-gobject-introspection-1740), [ISO Codes-4.12.0](11.General_utilities.md#1111-iso-codes-4120), [libgudev-237](9.General_libraries.md#940-libgudev-237), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [libogg-1.3.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4238-libogg-135), [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639), [libtheora-1.1.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4242-libtheora-111), [libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137), [Mesa-22.3.5](24.Graphical_environments.md#2416-mesa-2235), [Pango-1.50.12](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2542-pango-15012), [wayland-protocols-1.31](9.General_libraries.md#987-wayland-protocols-131), and [Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries)

#### Optional

[graphene-1.10.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2519-graphene-1108), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) (for examples), [Opus-1.3.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4246-opus-131), [Qt-5.15.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2544-qt-5158) (for examples), [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215), [SDL2-2.26.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4251-sdl2-2263), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc), [libvisual](http://libvisual.org/), [Orc](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/orc/), and [Tremor](https://wiki.xiph.org/Tremor)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-base](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-base)

Installation of GStreamer Base Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

### Note

If you need a plugin for a given dependency, that dependency needs to be installed before this package.

Install GStreamer Base Plug-ins by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS"    \
       --wrap-mode=nodownload &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**. The tests require an X terminal running, or all of the GL tests will fail. Five tests may produce timeouts on some systems depending on their graphics hardware and speed.

### Note

When installing, the build process does some additional linking. If you do not have Xorg in /usr, the LIBRARY_PATH variable needs to be defined for the root user. If using sudo to assume root, use the -E option to pass your current environment variables for the install process.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

`--wrap-mode=nodownload`: This switch prevents **meson** from downloading any optional dependency which is not installed on the system.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** gst-device-monitor-1.0, gst-discoverer-1.0, and gst-play-1.0

**Installed Libraries:** libgstallocators-1.0.so, libgstapp-1.0.so, libgstaudio-1.0.so, libgstfft-1.0.so, libgstgl-1.0.so, libgstpbutils-1.0.so, libgstriff-1.0.so, libgstrtp-1.0.so, libgstrtsp-1.0.so, libgstsdp-1.0.so, libgsttag-1.0.so, libgstvideo-1.0.so, and several plugins under /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{allocators,app,audio,fft,gl,pbutils}, /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{riff,rtp,rtsp,sdp,tag,video}, and /usr/share/gst-plugins-base

### Short Descriptions

**gst-device-monitor-1.0**      &emsp; is a command line tool that can be used to test GStreamer's device monitoring functionality.

**gst-discoverer-1.0**          &emsp; is a tool that can be used to print basic metadata and stream information about a media file.

**gst-play-1.0**                &emsp; is a command line tool that can be used to test basic playback using the playbin element.


## 42.17 gst-plugins-good-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to GStreamer Good Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

The GStreamer Good Plug-ins is a set of plug-ins considered by the GStreamer developers to have good quality code, correct functionality, and the preferred license (LGPL for the plug-in code, LGPL or LGPL-compatible for the supporting library). A wide range of video and audio decoders, encoders, and filters are included.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-good/gst-plugins-good-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-good/gst-plugins-good-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 4034320097501bccb2272a52874caaea
    
*   Download size: 2.7 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 105 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.6 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### GStreamer Good Plug-ins Dependencies

#### Required

[gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220)

#### Recommended

[Cairo-1.17.6](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#254-cairo-1176), [FLAC-1.4.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4212-flac-142), [gdk-pixbuf-2.42.10](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2513-gdk-pixbuf-24210), [LAME-3.100](43.Audio_utilities.md#434-lame-3100), [libsoup-2.74.3](17.Networking_libraries.md#1716-libsoup-2743), [libsoup-3.2.2](17.Networking_libraries.md#1717-libsoup-322), [libvpx-1.13.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4244-libvpx-1130), [mpg123-1.31.2](43.Audio_utilities.md#435-mpg123-1312), [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601), and [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161)

#### Optional

[AAlib-1.4rc5](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#101-aalib-14rc5), [ALSA OSS-1.1.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#427-alsa-oss-118), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) (for examples), [libdv-1.0.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4233-libdv-100), [Qt-5.15.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2544-qt-5158), [Speex-1.2.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4254-speex-121), [taglib-1.13](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4255-taglib-113), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [v4l-utils-1.22.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4256-v4l-utils-1221), [Wayland-1.21.0](9.General_libraries.md#986-wayland-1210), [hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc/), [JACK](https://jackaudio.org/), [libcaca](https://github.com/cacalabs/libcaca), [libavc1394](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libavc1394/), [libiec61883](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libraw1394/), [libraw1394](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libraw1394/), [libshout](https://www.icecast.org), [Orc](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/orc/), [TwoLame](https://www.twolame.org/), and [WavPack](https://wavpack.com/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-good](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-good)

Installation of GStreamer Good Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

### Note

If you need a plugin for a given dependency, that dependency needs to be installed before this package.

Install GStreamer Good Plug-ins by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS" &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**. One test, `elements_flvmux` is known to fail on some systems.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** Several plugins under /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0

**Installed Directories:** /usr/share/gstreamer-1.0/presets


## 42.18 gst-plugins-bad-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to GStreamer Bad Plug-ins
--------------------------------------

The GStreamer Bad Plug-ins package contains a set of plug-ins that aren't up to par compared to the rest. They might be close to being good quality, but they're missing something - be it a good code review, some documentation, a set of tests, a real live maintainer, or some actual wide use.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-bad/gst-plugins-bad-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-bad/gst-plugins-bad-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 6c4df68e7d32e2ae6a682b7dbc22e35a
    
*   Download size: 5.2 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 162 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 1.1 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### GStreamer Bad Plug-ins Dependencies

#### Required

[gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220)

#### Recommended

[libdvdread-6.1.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4231-libdvdread-613), [libdvdnav-6.1.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4232-libdvdnav-611), and [SoundTouch-2.3.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4253-soundtouch-232)

#### Optional

[BlueZ-5.66](12.System_utilities.md#125-bluez-566), [cURL-7.88.1](17.Networking_libraries.md#172-curl-7881), [FAAC-1_30](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#429-faac-1_30), [FAAD2-2.10.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4210-faad2-2101), [fdk-aac-2.0.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4211-fdk-aac-202), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) (for examples), [gst-plugins-good-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4217-gst-plugins-good-1220) (for one test), [Little CMS-2.14](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1014-little-cms-214), [libass-0.17.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4225-libass-0170), [libexif-0.6.24](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1015-libexif-0624) (for one test), [librsvg-2.54.5](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1022-librsvg-2545), [libsoup-2.74.3](17.Networking_libraries.md#1716-libsoup-2743) (for one test), [libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120), [libssh2-1.10.0](9.General_libraries.md#957-libssh2-1100), [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), [libva-2.17.0](24.Graphical_environments.md#2424-xorg-drivers), [libwebp-1.3.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1025-libwebp-130), [libxkbcommon-1.5.0](9.General_libraries.md#966-libxkbcommon-150), [neon-0.32.5](17.Networking_libraries.md#1719-neon-0325), [Nettle-3.8.1](4.Security.md#416-nettle-381) or [libgcrypt-1.10.1](9.General_libraries.md#936-libgcrypt-1101) (for SSL support in hls plugin, if both are not installed OpenSSL will be used instead), [opencv-4.7.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1028-opencv-470) (with additional modules), [OpenJPEG-2.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1029-openjpeg-250), [Opus-1.3.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4246-opus-131), [SBC-2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4249-sbc-20), [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [Wayland-1.21.0](9.General_libraries.md#986-wayland-1210) ([GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) must have been compiled with wayland support), [wpebackend-fdo-1.14.0](9.General_libraries.md#988-wpebackend-fdo-1140), [x265-20230215](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4258-x265-20230215), [aom](https://aomedia.googlesource.com/aom/), [bs2b](https://bs2b.sourceforge.net/), [Chromaprint](https://acoustid.org/chromaprint), [dssim](https://github.com/kornelski/dssim), [Flite](https://github.com/festvox/flite), [FluidSynth](https://www.fluidsynth.org/), [Game Music Emu](https://bitbucket.org/mpyne/game-music-emu/), [GSM](https://www.quut.com/gsm/), [hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc/), [LADSPA](https://www.ladspa.org/), [libavtp](https://github.com/AVnu/libavtp), [libdc1394-2](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libdc1394/files/libdc1394-2/), [libdca](https://www.videolan.org/developers/libdca.html), [libde265](https://www.libde265.org), [libkate](https://code.google.com/archive/p/libkate/), [libmfx](https://github.com/Intel-Media-SDK/MediaSDK), [libmms](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libmms/), [libmodplug](https://github.com/Konstanty/libmodplug), [libnice](https://libnice.freedesktop.org/), [libofa](https://code.google.com/p/musicip-libofa/), [libopenmpt](https://lib.openmpt.org/libopenmpt/), [libopenni](https://structure.io/openni), [libsrtp](https://github.com/cisco/libsrtp), [lilv](https://drobilla.net/software/lilv), [LRDF](https://github.com/swh/LRDF), [ltc-tools](https://github.com/x42/ltc-tools), [microdns](https://github.com/videolabs/libmicrodns), [MJPEG Tools](https://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/), [OpenAL](https://openal.org/), [OpenEXR](https://www.openexr.com/), [OpenH264](https://www.openh264.org/), [Orc](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/orc/), [rtmpdump](https://rtmpdump.mplayerhq.hu/), [spandsp](https://github.com/jart/spandsp), [Srt](https://github.com/Haivision/srt), [svthevcenc](https://github.com/OpenVisualCloud/SVT-HEVC/), [VO AAC](https://sourceforge.net/projects/opencore-amr/files/vo-aacenc/), [VO AMRWB](https://sourceforge.net/projects/opencore-amr/files/vo-amrwbenc/), [Vulkan](https://vulkan.lunarg.com/sdk/home/), [WildMidi](https://www.mindwerks.net/projects/wildmidi/), [WPE-WebKit](https://webkit.org/wpe/), [ZBAR](https://zbar.sourceforge.net/), [ZVBI](https://zapping.sourceforge.net/ZVBI/index.html/), and [zxing](https://github.com/zxing/zxing)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-bad](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-bad)

Installation of GStreamer Bad Plug-ins
--------------------------------------

### Note

If you need a plugin for a given dependency, that dependency needs to be installed before this package.

Install GStreamer Bad Plug-ins by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dgpl=enabled       \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS" &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**. Several tests need a terminal emulator in a graphical session. two tests, elements_vapostproc and elements_vacompositor are known to fail. If [gst-plugins-good-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4217-gst-plugins-good-1220) is not installed, two tests elements_rtpsrc and elements_rtpsink will fail.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

`-Dgpl=enabled`: Without this switch, plugins with dependencies on (A)GPL licensed libraries are not built.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** gst-transcoder-1.0 and playout

**Installed Libraries:** libgstadaptivedemux-1.0.so, libgstbadaudio-1.0.so, libgstbasecamerabinsrc-1.0.so, libgstcodecparsers-1.0.so, libgstcodecs-1.0.so, libgstinsertbin-1.0.so, libgstisoff-1.0.so, libgstmpegts-1.0.so, libgstphotography-1.0.so, libgstplay-1.0.so, libgstplayer-1.0.so, libgstsctp-1.0.so, libgsttranscoder-1.0.so, libgsturidownloader-1.0.so, libgstva-1.0.so, libgstwayland-1.0.so, libgstwebrtc-1.0.so, and several plugins under /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{audio,basecamerabinsrc,codecparsers}, /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{insertbin,interfaces,isoff,mpegts}, /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{play,player,sctp,transcoder}, and /usr/include/gstreamer-1.0/gst/{uridownloader,wayland,webrtc}

### Short Descriptions

**gst-transcoder-1.0**  &emsp; is used to transcode a stream into a different format.

**playout**             &emsp; is an example application used to sequentially play a list of audio-video files.


## 42.19 gst-plugins-ugly-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to GStreamer Ugly Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

The GStreamer Ugly Plug-ins is a set of plug-ins considered by the GStreamer developers to have good quality and correct functionality, but distributing them might pose problems. The license on either the plug-ins or the supporting libraries might not be how the GStreamer developers would like. The code might be widely known to present patent problems.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-ugly/gst-plugins-ugly-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-plugins-ugly/gst-plugins-ugly-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: ac97c1ca8d9c7a9878ca15796b70d809
    
*   Download size: 236 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 8.4 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU (with tests)
    

### GStreamer Ugly Plug-ins Dependencies

#### Required

[gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220)

#### Recommended

[liba52-0.7.4](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4223-liba52-074) (needed to play DVD's), [libdvdread-6.1.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4231-libdvdread-613), and [x264-20230215](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4257-x264-20230215)

#### Optional

[libmpeg2-0.5.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4235-libmpeg2-051), [libcdio-2.1.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4228-libcdio-210) (for CD-ROM drive access), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc/), [libsidplay](https://packages.debian.org/source/sid/libsidplay), [OpenCore AMR](https://sourceforge.net/projects/opencore-amr/), [Orc](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/orc/), and [TwoLame](https://www.twolame.org/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-ugly](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-plugins-ugly)

Installation of GStreamer Ugly Plug-ins
---------------------------------------

### Note

If you need a plugin for a given dependency, that dependency needs to be installed before this package.

Install GStreamer Ugly Plug-ins by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dgpl=enabled       \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS" &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

`-Dgpl=enabled`: Without this switch, plugins with dependencies on (A)GPL licensed libraries are not built.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** Several plugins under /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0

**Installed Directories:** None


## 42.20 gst-libav-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to GStreamer Libav
-------------------------------

The GStreamer Libav package contains GStreamer plugins for Libav (a fork of FFmpeg).

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-libav/gst-libav-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gst-libav/gst-libav-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: a2165c56301906c50dcc9245d535df45
    
*   Download size: 188 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 8.9 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### GStreamer Libav Dependencies

#### Required

[FFmpeg-5.1.2](44.Video_utilities.md#441-ffmpeg-512) and [gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220)

#### Recommended

[yasm-1.3.0](13.Programming.md#1337-yasm-130)

#### Optional

[hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-libav](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gst10-libav)

Installation of GStreamer Libav
-------------------------------

Install GStreamer Libav by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ \
       -Dpackage-name="GStreamer 1.22.0 BLFS" &&
ninja
```

The tests are not recommended. Test 6 of 6 times out after 3 minutes. To run the tests anyway, issue: **ninja test**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libgstlibav.so in /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0 directory

**Installed Directory:** None


## 42.21 gstreamer-vaapi-1.22.0
--------

Introduction to gstreamer-vaapi
-------------------------------

The gstreamer-vaapi package contains a gstreamer plugin for hardware accelerated video decode/encode for the prevailing coding standards today (MPEG-2, MPEG-4 ASP/H.263, MPEG-4 AVC/H.264, and VC-1/VMW3).

### Note

On systems without hardware acceleration (notably virtual machines under [qemu-7.2.0](8.Virtualization.md#81-qemu-720)), this package may cause the X server to crash. The BLFS team recommends not to install this package in this case.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gstreamer-vaapi/gstreamer-vaapi-1.22.0.tar.xz](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/gstreamer-vaapi/gstreamer-vaapi-1.22.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 49857ccda7c14cbb64769a60058708f9
    
*   Download size: 516 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 12 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### gstreamer-vaapi Dependencies

#### Required

[GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436), [gstreamer-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4215-gstreamer-1220), [gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220), [gst-plugins-bad-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4218-gst-plugins-bad-1220), and [libva-2.17.0](24.Graphical_environments.md#2424-xorg-drivers)

#### Optional

[hotdoc](https://pypi.org/project/hotdoc)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gstreamer10-vaapi](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gstreamer10-vaapi)

Installation of gstreamer-vaapi
-------------------------------

Install gstreamer-vaapi by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson  --prefix=/usr       \
       --buildtype=release \
       -Dpackage-origin=https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.3-systemd/ &&
ninja
```

This package does not come with a vi working test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libgstvaapi.so in /usr/lib/gstreamer-1.0

**Installed Directory:** None


## 42.22 id3lib-3.8.3
--------

Introduction to id3lib
----------------------

id3lib is a library for reading, writing and manipulating id3v1 and id3v2 multimedia data containers.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/id3lib/id3lib-3.8.3.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/id3lib/id3lib-3.8.3.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 19f27ddd2dda4b2d26a559a4f0f402a7
    
*   Download size: 932 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 16 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patches: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/id3lib-3.8.3-consolidated_patches-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/id3lib-3.8.3-consolidated_patches-1.patch)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/id3lib](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/id3lib)

Installation of Id3lib
----------------------

Install id3lib by running the following commands:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../id3lib-3.8.3-consolidated_patches-1.patch &&

libtoolize -fc                &&
aclocal                       &&
autoconf                      &&
automake --add-missing --copy &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This packages does not come with a working test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install  &&
cp doc/man/* /usr/share/man/man1 &&

install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/id3lib-3.8.3 &&
install -v -m644 doc/*.{gif,jpg,png,ico,css,txt,php,html} \
                    /usr/share/doc/id3lib-3.8.3
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** id3convert, id3cp, id3info, and id3tag

**Installed Library:** libid3.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/id3 and /usr/share/doc/id3lib-3.8.3

### Short Descriptions

**id3convert**          &emsp; converts between id3v1/v2 tagging formats.

**id3cp**               &emsp; extracts id3v1/v2 tags from digital audio files.

**id3info**             &emsp; prints id3v1/v2 tag contents.

**id3tag**              &emsp; is a utility for editing id3v1/v2 tags.

`libid3.so`             &emsp; provides functions for the id3v1/v2 tag editing programs as well as other external programs and libraries.


## 42.23 Liba52-0.7.4
--------

Introduction to Liba52
----------------------

liba52 is a free library for decoding ATSC A/52 (also known as AC-3) streams. The A/52 standard is used in a variety of applications, including digital television and DVD.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://liba52.sourceforge.net/files/a52dec-0.7.4.tar.gz](https://liba52.sourceforge.net/files/a52dec-0.7.4.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: caa9f5bc44232dc8aeea773fea56be80
    
*   Download size: 236 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 2.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

#### Optional

[djbfft](https://cr.yp.to/djbfft.html)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/liba52](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/liba52)

Installation of Liba52
----------------------

Install liba52 by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr \
            --mandir=/usr/share/man \
            --enable-shared \
            --disable-static \
            CFLAGS="${CFLAGS:--g -O2} $([ $(uname -m) = x86_64 ] && echo -fPIC)" &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
cp liba52/a52_internal.h /usr/include/a52dec &&
install -v -m644 -D doc/liba52.txt \
    /usr/share/doc/liba52-0.7.4/liba52.txt
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`CFLAGS="-g -O2 ...`: This sets CFLAGS to -g -O2 (which is the default) but then on x86_64 adds -fPIC. This is needed to compile liba52 on x86_64.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

**cp liba52/a52_internal.h ...**: Copying this header file into /usr/include/a52dec allows some other programs (such as xine-lib) to compile and link against a system installed liba52.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** a52dec and extract_a52

**Installed Library:** liba52.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/a52dec and /usr/share/doc/liba52-0.7.4

### Short Descriptions

**a52dec**              &emsp; plays ATSC A/52 audio streams.

**extract_a52**         &emsp; extracts ATSC A/52 audio from an MPEG stream.

`liba52.so`             &emsp; provides functions for the programs dealing with ATSC A/52 streams.


## 42.24 Libao-1.2.0
--------

Introduction to Libao
---------------------

The libao package contains a cross-platform audio library. This is useful to output audio on a wide variety of platforms. It currently supports WAV files, OSS (Open Sound System), ESD (Enlighten Sound Daemon), ALSA (Advanced Linux Sound Architecture), NAS (Network Audio system), aRTS (analog Real-Time Synthesizer), and PulseAudio (next generation GNOME sound architecture).

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/ao/libao-1.2.0.tar.gz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/ao/libao-1.2.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9f5dd20d7e95fd0dd72df5353829f097
    
*   Download size: 456 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.9 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### Libao Dependencies

#### Optional

[a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md), [ALSA-1.2.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#421-alsa-127), and [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libao](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libao)

Installation of Libao
---------------------

Install libao by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m644 README /usr/share/doc/libao-1.2.0
```

Configuring Libao
-----------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/libao.conf` and `~/.libao`

#### Configuration Information

Currently, the only configuration option available is setting the default output device. Issue **man libao.conf** for details.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** libao.so and plugins under /usr/lib/ao/plugins-4

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/ao, /usr/lib/ao and /usr/share/doc/libao-1.2.0

### Short Descriptions

`libao.so`              &emsp; provides functions for programs wishing to output sound over supported platforms.


## 42.25 libass-0.17.0
--------

Introduction to libass
----------------------

libass is a portable subtitle renderer for the ASS/SSA (Advanced Substation Alpha/Substation Alpha) subtitle format that allows for more advanced subtitles than the conventional SRT and similar formats.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/libass/libass/releases/download/0.17.0/libass-0.17.0.tar.xz](https://github.com/libass/libass/releases/download/0.17.0/libass-0.17.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 25f7435779aa28eb7dbd3f76f4d17d15
    
*   Download size: 396 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 5.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### libass Dependencies

#### Required

[FreeType-2.13.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#104-freetype-2130), [FriBidi-1.0.12](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#106-fribidi-1012), and [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601)

#### Recommended

[Fontconfig-2.14.2](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#105-fontconfig-2142)

#### Optional

[HarfBuzz-7.0.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1011-harfbuzz-700) and [libunibreak](https://github.com/adah1972/libunibreak)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libass](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libass)

Installation of libass
----------------------

Install libass by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--disable-fontconfig`: Use this switch if you didn't install Fontconfig.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libass.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/ass

### Short Descriptions

`libass.so`             &emsp; provides the functions used to render ASS/SSA subtitle format.


## 42.26 libcanberra-0.30
--------

Introduction to libcanberra
---------------------------

libcanberra is an implementation of the XDG Sound Theme and Name Specifications, for generating event sounds on free desktops, such as GNOME.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/libcanberra/libcanberra-0.30.tar.xz](https://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/libcanberra/libcanberra-0.30.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 34cb7e4430afaf6f447c4ebdb9b42072
    
*   Download size: 312 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 7.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libcanberra-0.30-wayland-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libcanberra-0.30-wayland-1.patch)
    

### libcanberra Dependencies

#### Required

[libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137)

#### Recommended

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [gstreamer-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4215-gstreamer-1220), and [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436)

#### Optional

[GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), and [tdb](https://tdb.samba.org/)

#### Recommended Sound Theme (Run Time)

[sound-theme-freedesktop-0.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4252-sound-theme-freedesktop-08), or another theme, for example from [the gnome-look website](https://www.gnome-look.org/browse?cat=316)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcanberra](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcanberra)

Installation of libcanberra
---------------------------

At first, apply a patch to fix an issue causing some applications to crash in Wayland based desktop environment:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../libcanberra-0.30-wayland-1.patch
```

Install libcanberra by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-oss &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make docdir=/usr/share/doc/libcanberra-0.30 install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-oss`: disable optional deprecated OSS support

`--disable-gtk`: disable optional GTK+ 2 support

`--disable-gtk3`: disable optional GTK+ 3 support

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** canberra-boot and canberra-gtk-play

**Installed Libraries:** libcanberra-gtk.so, libcanberra-gtk3.so and libcanberra.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/lib/libcanberra-0.30, /usr/share/doc/libcanberra-0.30 and /usr/share/gtk-doc/html/libcanberra

### Short Descriptions

**canberra-gtk-play**   &emsp; is an application used for playing sound events.

`libcanberra-gtk.so`    &emsp; contains the libcanberra bindings for GTK+ 2.

`libcanberra-gtk3.so`   &emsp; contains the libcanberra bindings for GTK+ 3.

`libcanberra.so`        &emsp; contains the libcanberra API functions.


## 42.27 libcddb-1.3.2
--------

Introduction to libcddb
-----------------------

The libcddb is a library that implements the different protocols (CDDBP, HTTP, SMTP) to access data on a CDDB server.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libcddb/libcddb-1.3.2.tar.bz2](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libcddb/libcddb-1.3.2.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 8bb4a6f542197e8e9648ae597cd6bc8a
    
*   Download size: 384 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.9 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU (with tests)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcddb](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcddb)

Installation of libcddb
-----------------------

By default this package accesses `freedb.org`, which is already closed. Modify the default to use `gnudb.gnudb.org` instead, and fix two stale test data files:

```bash
sed -e '/DEFAULT_SERVER/s/freedb.org/gnudb.gnudb.org/' \
    -e '/DEFAULT_PORT/s/888/&0/'                       \
    -i include/cddb/cddb_ni.h                          &&
sed '/^Genre:/s/Trip-Hop/Electronic/' -i tests/testdata/920ef00b.txt &&
sed '/DISCID/i# Revision: 42'         -i tests/testcache/misc/12340000
```

Install libcddb by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check -k**. The test suite needs the Internet connection. One test fails due to missing test server.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cddb_query

**Installed Library:** libcddb.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/cddb

### Short Descriptions

**cddb_query**          &emsp; provides a user interface to a CDDB server.


## 42.28 libcdio-2.1.0
--------

Introduction to libcdio
-----------------------

The libcdio is a library for CD-ROM and CD image access. The associated libcdio-cdparanoia library reads audio from the CD-ROM directly as data, with no analog step between, and writes the data to a file or pipe as .wav, .aifc or as raw 16 bit linear PCM.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-2.1.0.tar.bz2](https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-2.1.0.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-2.1.0.tar.bz2](ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-2.1.0.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: aa7629e8f73662a762f64c444b901055
    
*   Download size: 1.7 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 43 MB (both packages, including checks)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU (using parallelism=4; both packages, including checks)
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required file: [https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-paranoia-10.2+2.0.1.tar.bz2](https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/libcdio-paranoia-10.2+2.0.1.tar.bz2)
    

### libcdio Dependencies

#### Optional

[libcddb-1.3.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4227-libcddb-132)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcdio](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libcdio)

Installation of libcdio
-----------------------

Install libcdio by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check -k**. One test named `realpath` is known to fail.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Now install libcdio-paranoia:

```bash
tar -xf ../libcdio-paranoia-10.2+2.0.1.tar.bz2 &&
cd libcdio-paranoia-10.2+2.0.1 &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cdda-player, cd-drive, cd-info, cd-paranoia, cd-read, iso-info, iso-read, and mmc-tool

**Installed Library:** libcdio.so, libcdio++.so, libcdio_cdda, libcdio_paranoia, libiso9660, libiso9660++, and libudf.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/cdio and /usr/include/cdio++

### Short Descriptions

**cd-drive**            &emsp; shows CD-ROM drive characteristics.

**cd-info**             &emsp; shows information about a CD or CD-image.

**cd-paranoia**         &emsp; is an audio CD reading utility which includes extra data verification features.

**cd-read**             &emsp; reads Information from a CD or CD-image.

**cdda-player**         &emsp; is a simple curses CD player.

**iso-info**            &emsp; shows Information about an ISO 9660 image.

**iso-read**            &emsp; reads portions of an ISO 9660 image.

**mmc-tool**            &emsp; issues libcdio multimedia commands.

`libcdio.so`            &emsp; contains the primary cdio API functions.


## 42.29 libdiscid-0.6.2
--------

Introduction to libdiscid
-------------------------

The libdiscid package contains a library for creating MusicBrainz DiscIDs from audio CDs. It reads a CD's table of contents (TOC) and generates an identifier which can be used to lookup the CD at MusicBrainz ([https://musicbrainz.org](https://musicbrainz.org)). Additionally, it provides a submission URL for adding the DiscID to the database.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [http://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/libdiscid/libdiscid-0.6.2.tar.gz](http://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/libdiscid/libdiscid-0.6.2.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/libdiscid/libdiscid-0.6.2.tar.gz](ftp://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/libdiscid/libdiscid-0.6.2.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 2812bb678f5142efdfd0d0f7d6ea87d6
    
*   Download size: 396 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.1 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU (with tests)
    

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdiscid](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdiscid)

Installation of libdiscid
-------------------------

Install libdiscid by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libdiscid.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/discid

### Short Descriptions

`libdiscid.so`          &emsp; contains the DiscID API functions.


## 42.30 libdvdcss-1.4.3
--------

Introduction to libdvdcss
-------------------------

libdvdcss is a simple library designed for accessing DVDs as a block device without having to bother about the decryption.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://get.videolan.org/libdvdcss/1.4.3/libdvdcss-1.4.3.tar.bz2](https://get.videolan.org/libdvdcss/1.4.3/libdvdcss-1.4.3.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: e98239a88af9b2204f9b9d987c2bc71a
    
*   Download size: 380 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.3 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### libdvdcss Dependencies

#### Optional (to Create Documentation)

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdcss](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdcss)

Installation of libdvdcss
-------------------------

Install libdvdcss by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libdvdcss-1.4.3 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libdvdcss.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/dvdcss and /usr/share/doc/libdvdcss-1.4.3

### Short Descriptions

`libdvdcss.so`          &emsp; provides the functionality that is required for transparent DVD access with CSS decryption.


## 42.31 Libdvdread-6.1.3
--------

Introduction to Libdvdread
--------------------------

libdvdread is a library which provides a simple foundation for reading DVDs.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://get.videolan.org/libdvdread/6.1.3/libdvdread-6.1.3.tar.bz2](https://get.videolan.org/libdvdread/6.1.3/libdvdread-6.1.3.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 3c58d1624a71a16ff40f55dbaca82523
    
*   Download size: 388 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.6 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdread](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdread)

Installation of Libdvdread
--------------------------

Install libdvdread by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libdvdread-6.1.3 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libdvdread.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/dvdread and /usr/share/doc/libdvdread-6.1.3

### Short Descriptions

`libdvdread.so`         &emsp; provides functionality required to access DVDs.


## 42.32 Libdvdnav-6.1.1
--------

Introduction to Libdvdnav
-------------------------

libdvdnav is a library that allows easy use of sophisticated DVD navigation features such as DVD menus, multiangle playback and even interactive DVD games.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://get.videolan.org/libdvdnav/6.1.1/libdvdnav-6.1.1.tar.bz2](https://get.videolan.org/libdvdnav/6.1.1/libdvdnav-6.1.1.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 46c46cb0294fbd1fcb8a0181818dad15
    
*   Download size: 360 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.7 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### Libdvdnav Dependencies

#### Required

[libdvdread-6.1.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4231-libdvdread-613)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdnav](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdvdnav)

Installation of Libdvdnav
-------------------------

Install libdvdnav by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libdvdnav-6.1.1 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libdvdnav.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/dvdnav and /usr/share/doc/libdvdnav-6.1.1

### Short Descriptions

`libdvdnav.so`          &emsp; is the DVD navigation library.


## 42.33 Libdv-1.0.0
--------

Introduction to Libdv
---------------------

The Quasar DV Codec (libdv) is a software CODEC for DV video, the encoding format used by most digital camcorders. It can be used to copy videos from camcorders using a firewire (IEEE 1394) connection.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libdv/libdv-1.0.0.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libdv/libdv-1.0.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: f895162161cfa4bb4a94c070a7caa6c7
    
*   Download size: 574 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 6.0 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### Libdv Dependencies

#### Optional

[popt-1.19](9.General_libraries.md#979-popt-119), [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215), and [a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdv](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libdv)

Installation of Libdv
---------------------

Install libdv by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr \
            --disable-xv \
            --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m755 -d      /usr/share/doc/libdv-1.0.0 &&
install -v -m644 README* /usr/share/doc/libdv-1.0.0
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-xv`: This parameter is required if an X Window System is not installed. It also prevents **configure** testing for `libXv` which is only used for an obsolete program **playdv** that will not be built with current linux headers and would also need other obsolete dependencies.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** dubdv, dvconnect, and encodedv

**Installed Library:** libdv.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/libdv and /usr/share/doc/libdv-1.0.0

### Short Descriptions

**dubdv**               &emsp; inserts audio into a digital video stream.

**dvconnect**           &emsp; is a small utility to send or capture raw data from and to the camcorder.

**encodedv**            &emsp; encodes a series of images to a digital video stream.

`libdv.so`              &emsp; provides functions for programs interacting with the Quasar DV CODEC.


## 42.34 libmad-0.15.1b
--------

Introduction to libmad
----------------------

libmad is a high-quality MPEG audio decoder capable of 24-bit output.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/mad/libmad-0.15.1b.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/mad/libmad-0.15.1b.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.mars.org/pub/mpeg/libmad-0.15.1b.tar.gz](ftp://ftp.mars.org/pub/mpeg/libmad-0.15.1b.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 1be543bc30c56fb6bea1d7bf6a64e66c
    
*   Download size: 491 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 4.2 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmad-0.15.1b-fixes-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmad-0.15.1b-fixes-1.patch)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmad](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmad)

Installation of libmad
----------------------

Install libmad by running the following commands:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../libmad-0.15.1b-fixes-1.patch                &&
sed "s@AM_CONFIG_HEADER@AC_CONFIG_HEADERS@g" -i configure.ac &&
touch NEWS AUTHORS ChangeLog                                 &&
autoreconf -fi                                               &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Some packages check for the pkg-config file for libmad. This file is particularly needed so that Cdrdao can recognize the installed libmad.

As the `root` user:

```bash
cat > /usr/lib/pkgconfig/mad.pc << "EOF"
prefix=/usr
exec_prefix=${prefix}
libdir=${exec_prefix}/lib
includedir=${prefix}/include

Name: mad
Description: MPEG audio decoder
Requires:
Version: 0.15.1b
Libs: -L${libdir} -lmad
Cflags: -I${includedir}
EOF
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**touch NEWS AUTHORS ChangeLog**: Prevent autoreconf from returning an error.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libmad.so

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

`libmad.so`             &emsp; is a MPEG audio decoder library.


## 42.35 libmpeg2-0.5.1
--------

Introduction to libmpeg2
------------------------

The libmpeg2 package contains a library for decoding MPEG-2 and MPEG-1 video streams. The library is able to decode all MPEG streams that conform to certain restrictions: “constrained parameters” for MPEG-1, and “main profile” for MPEG-2. This is useful for programs and applications needing to decode MPEG-2 and MPEG-1 video streams.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://libmpeg2.sourceforge.net/files/libmpeg2-0.5.1.tar.gz](https://libmpeg2.sourceforge.net/files/libmpeg2-0.5.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.mirrorservice.org/sites/distfiles.gentoo.org/distfiles/libmpeg2-0.5.1.tar.gz](ftp://ftp.mirrorservice.org/sites/distfiles.gentoo.org/distfiles/libmpeg2-0.5.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 0f92c7454e58379b4a5a378485bbd8ef
    
*   Download size: 513 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 6 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### libmpeg2 Dependencies

#### Optional

[a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md) and [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmpeg2](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmpeg2)

Installation of libmpeg2
------------------------

Install libmpeg2 by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -i 's/static const/static/' libmpeg2/idct_mmx.c &&

./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --enable-shared  \
            --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**. To perform a more comprehensive regression test, see the file `test/README` in the source tree.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&

install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/libmpeg2-0.5.1 &&
install -v -m644 README doc/libmpeg2.txt \
                    /usr/share/doc/libmpeg2-0.5.1
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed -i ...**: This **sed** fixes problems with recent GCC compilers.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** corrupt_mpeg2, extract_mpeg2 and mpeg2dec

**Installed Libraries:** libmpeg2.so and libmpeg2convert.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/mpeg2dec and /usr/share/doc/libmpeg2-0.5.1

### Short Descriptions

**extract_mpeg2**       &emsp; extracts MPEG video streams from a multiplexed stream.

**mpeg2dec**            &emsp; decodes MPEG1 and MPEG2 video streams.

`libmpeg2.so`           &emsp; contains API functions used to decode MPEG video streams.

`libmpeg2convert.so`    &emsp; contains API functions used for color conversions of MPEG video streams.


## 42.36 libmusicbrainz-2.1.5
--------

Introduction to libmusicbrainz
------------------------------

The libmusicbrainz package contains a library which allows you to access the data held on the MusicBrainz server. This is useful for adding MusicBrainz lookup capabilities to other applications.

MusicBrainz is a community music metadatabase that attempts to create a comprehensive music information site. You can use the MusicBrainz data either by browsing the web site, or you can access the data from a client program — for example, a CD player program can use MusicBrainz to identify CDs and provide information about the CD, about the artist or other related information.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [http://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/historical/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5.tar.gz](http://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/historical/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/historical/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5.tar.gz](ftp://ftp.musicbrainz.org/pub/musicbrainz/historical/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: d5e19bb77edd6ea798ce206bd05ccc5f
    
*   Download size: 524 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 12 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.4 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5-missing-includes-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5-missing-includes-1.patch)
    

### libmusicbrainz Dependencies

#### Optional to Build the Python Bindings

[Python-2.7.18](13.Programming.md#1322-python-2718)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmusicbrainz](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmusicbrainz)

Installation of libmusicbrainz
------------------------------

Install libmusicbrainz by running the following commands:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../libmusicbrainz-2.1.5-missing-includes-1.patch &&

CXXFLAGS="${CXXFLAGS:--O2 -g} -std=c++98" \
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

If Python is installed, build the bindings with the following commands:

```bash
(cd python && python2 setup.py build)
```

This package does not come with a stand-alone test suite (to test you must have Python installed and perform the test after the package is installed).

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m644 -D docs/mb_howto.txt \
    /usr/share/doc/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5/mb_howto.txt
```

To test the Python bindings, issue the following: **(cd python && python2 setup.py test)**.

If you built the Python bindings, issue the following commands as the `root` user to install them:

```bash
(cd python && python2 setup.py install)
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libmusicbrainz.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/musicbrainz and /usr/share/doc/libmusicbrainz-2.1.5

### Short Descriptions

`libmusicbrainz.so`     &emsp; contains API functions to access the MusicBrainz database, both for looking up data and also for submitting new data.


## 42.37 libmusicbrainz-5.1.0
--------

Introduction to libmusicbrainz
------------------------------

The libmusicbrainz package contains a library which allows you to access the data held on the MusicBrainz server.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/metabrainz/libmusicbrainz/releases/download/release-5.1.0/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/metabrainz/libmusicbrainz/releases/download/release-5.1.0/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 4cc5556aa40ff7ab8f8cb83965535bc3
    
*   Download size: 76 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 6.6 MB (additional 4.4 MB for the API documentation)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Required patch: [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0-cmake_fixes-1.patch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/patches/blfs/11.3/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0-cmake_fixes-1.patch)
    

### libmusicbrainz Dependencies

#### Required

[CMake-3.25.2](13.Programming.md#134-cmake-3252), [libxml2-2.10.3](9.General_libraries.md#967-libxml2-2103) and [neon-0.32.5](17.Networking_libraries.md#1719-neon-0325)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmusicbrainz5](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libmusicbrainz5)

Installation of libmusicbrainz
------------------------------

First, fix a problem caused by CMake-3.18.0:

```bash
patch -Np1 -i ../libmusicbrainz-5.1.0-cmake_fixes-1.patch
```

Install libmusicbrainz by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release .. &&
make
```

If you have installed [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), optionally build the API documentation:

```bash
doxygen ../Doxyfile
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

If you have built the API documentation, install, as the `root` user:

```bash
rm -rf /usr/share/doc/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0 &&
cp -vr docs/ /usr/share/doc/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libmusicbrainz5.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/libmusicbrainz5 and /usr/share/doc/libmusicbrainz-5.1.0

### Short Descriptions

`libmusicbrainz5.so`    &emsp; contains API functions for accessing the MusicBrainz database.


## 42.38 libogg-1.3.5
--------

Introduction to libogg
----------------------

The libogg package contains the Ogg file structure. This is useful for creating (encoding) or playing (decoding) a single physical bit stream.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/ogg/libogg-1.3.5.tar.xz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/ogg/libogg-1.3.5.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 3178c98341559657a15b185bf5d700a5
    
*   Download size: 420 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.5 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU (with tests)
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libogg](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libogg)

Installation of libogg
----------------------

Install libogg by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libogg-1.3.5 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libogg.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/ogg and /usr/share/doc/libogg-1.3.5

### Short Descriptions

`libogg.so`             &emsp; provides the functions required for programs to read or write Ogg formatted bit streams.


## 42.39 libquicktime-1.2.4
--------

Introduction to libquicktime
----------------------------

The libquicktime package contains the `libquicktime` library, various plugins and codecs, along with graphical and command line utilities used for encoding and decoding QuickTime files. This is useful for reading and writing files in the QuickTime format. The goal of the project is to enhance, while providing compatibility with the Quicktime 4 Linux library.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libquicktime/libquicktime-1.2.4.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/libquicktime/libquicktime-1.2.4.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 81cfcebad9b7ee7e7cfbefc861d6d61b
    
*   Download size: 1.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 20 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.7 SBU (includes building all codec modules)
    

### libquicktime Dependencies

#### Optional

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), [FAAC-1_30](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#429-faac-1_30), [FAAD2-2.10.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4210-faad2-2101), [GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433), [LAME-3.100](43.Audio_utilities.md#434-lame-3100), [libdv-1.0.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4233-libdv-100), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639), [libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137), [x264-20230215](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4257-x264-20230215), [Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries), and [Schroedinger](https://launchpad.net/schroedinger)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libquicktime](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libquicktime)

Installation of libquicktime
----------------------------

Install libquicktime by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr     \
            --enable-gpl      \
            --without-doxygen \
            --without-ffmpeg  \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libquicktime-1.2.4
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&

install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/libquicktime-1.2.4 &&
install -v -m644    README doc/{*.txt,*.html,mainpage.incl} \
                    /usr/share/doc/libquicktime-1.2.4
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--enable-gpl`: Changes the licence to GPL. This enables some extra plugins, such as FAAC, FAAD2, and x264.

`--without-doxygen`: This is necessary if you do not have Doxygen, omit this if it is installed and you wish the API documentation installed.

`--without-ffmpeg`: This switch disables ffmpeg support because it is incompatible with ffmpeg-5.

`--with-libdv`: Build with libdv support. Not enabled by default.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** libquicktime_config, lqtplay, lqtremux, lqt_transcode, qt2text, qtdechunk, qtdump, qtinfo, qtrechunk, qtstreamize, and qtyuv4toyuv

**Installed Libraries:** libquicktime.so and several plugin codec libraries

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/lqt, /usr/lib/libquicktime, and /usr/share/doc/libquicktime-1.2.4

### Short Descriptions

**libquicktime_config** &emsp; is a graphical front end to examine and configure the available libquicktime audio and video codecs.

**lqtplay**             &emsp; is a simple QuickTime movie player for X Window System.

**lqt_transcode**       &emsp; is a command-line program used to encode video and/or audio files from one format to another.

**qt2text**             &emsp; is used to dump all text strings from a quicktime file.

**qtdechunk**           &emsp; can take movies containing rgb frames and write them out as ppm images.

**qtdump**              &emsp; displays the parsed contents of the provided file.

**qtinfo**              &emsp; prints various pieces of metadata parsed by the libquicktime library for the provided file.

**qtrechunk**           &emsp; concatenates input frames into a QuickTime movie.

**qtstreamize**         &emsp; is used to make a file streamable by placing the moov header at the beginning of the file.

**qtyuv4toyuv**         &emsp; is used to write a YUV4 encoded movie as a planar YUV 4:2:0 file.

`libquicktime.so`       &emsp; is a library for reading and writing QuickTime files. It provides convenient access to QuickTime files with a variety of supported codecs. The library contains new functions integrated with all the original QuickTime 4 Linux library functions used to encode and decode QuickTime files.


## 42.40 libsamplerate-0.2.2
--------

Introduction to libsamplerate
-----------------------------

libsamplerate is a sample rate converter for audio.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/libsndfile/libsamplerate/releases/download/0.2.2/libsamplerate-0.2.2.tar.xz](https://github.com/libsndfile/libsamplerate/releases/download/0.2.2/libsamplerate-0.2.2.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 97c010fc25156c33cddc272c1935afab
    
*   Download size: 3.2 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 15 MB (add 2 MB for tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU (add 0.3 SBU for tests)
    

### libsamplerate Dependencies

#### Optional

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120), and [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310) (for tests)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libsamplerate](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libsamplerate)

Installation of libsamplerate
-----------------------------

Install libsamplerate by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libsamplerate-0.2.2 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** None

**Installed Library:** libsamplerate.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/share/doc/libsamplerate-0.2.2


## 42.41 libsndfile-1.2.0
--------

Introduction to libsndfile
--------------------------

Libsndfile is a library of C routines for reading and writing files containing sampled audio data.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/libsndfile/libsndfile/releases/download/1.2.0/libsndfile-1.2.0.tar.xz](https://github.com/libsndfile/libsndfile/releases/download/1.2.0/libsndfile-1.2.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 00fbf50ce1d7a67a8e6dc0a04f4d8d2e
    
*   Download size: 716 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 12 MB (add 10 MB for tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU (add 0.2 SBU for tests)
    

### libsndfile Dependencies

#### Recommended

[FLAC-1.4.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4212-flac-142), [Opus-1.3.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4246-opus-131), and [libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137)

#### Optional

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [LAME-3.100](43.Audio_utilities.md#434-lame-3100), [mpg123-1.31.2](43.Audio_utilities.md#435-mpg123-1312), [Speex-1.2.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4254-speex-121), and [SQLite-3.40.1](22.Databases.md#226-sqlite-3401)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libsndfile](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libsndfile)

Installation of libsndfile
--------------------------

Install libsndfile by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/libsndfile-1.2.0 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** sndfile-cmp, sndfile-concat, sndfile-convert, sndfile-deinterleave, sndfile-info, sndfile-interleave, sndfile-metadata-get, sndfile-metadata-set, sndfile-play, and sndfile-salvage

**Installed Library:** libsndfile.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/share/doc/libsndfile-1.2.0

### Short Descriptions

**sndfile-cmp**                 &emsp; compares two audio files.

**sndfile-concat**              &emsp; concatenates two or more audio files.

**sndfile-convert**             &emsp; converts a sound files from one format to another.

**sndfile-deinterleave**        &emsp; splits a multi-channel into multiple single channel files.

**sndfile-info**                &emsp; displays information about a sound file.

**sndfile-interleave**          &emsp; converts multiple single channel files into a multi-channel file.

**sndfile-metadata-get**        &emsp; retrieves metadata from a sound file.

**sndfile-metadata-set**        &emsp; sets metadata in a sound file.

**sndfile-play**                &emsp; plays a sound file.

**sndfile-salvage**             &emsp; Salvages the audio data from WAV files which are more than 4G in length.

`libsndfile.so`                 &emsp; contains the libsndfile API functions.


## 42.42 libtheora-1.1.1
--------

Introduction to libtheora
-------------------------

libtheora is a reference implementation of the Theora video compression format being developed by the Xiph.Org Foundation.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/theora/libtheora-1.1.1.tar.xz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/theora/libtheora-1.1.1.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9eeabf1ad65b7f41533854a59f7a716d
    
*   Download size: 1.4 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 13.4 MB (without static libs or API docs and without installing the examples)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### libtheora Dependencies

#### Required

[libogg-1.3.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4238-libogg-135)

#### Recommended

[libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137)

#### Optional

[SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215) and [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639) (both to build the example players), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), [texlive-20220321](51.Typesetting.md#513-texlive-20220321-source) (or [install-tl-unx](51.Typesetting.md#512-install-tl-unx)), [BibTex](https://bibtexml.sourceforge.net), and [Transfig](https://mcj.sourceforge.net/) (all four to build the API documentation), and [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Libtheora](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Libtheora)

Installation of libtheora
-------------------------

Install libtheora by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -i 's/png_\(sizeof\)/\1/g' examples/png2theora.c &&
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

If you wish to run the tests, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

If you wish to install the examples (so that you can hack on `theora`), install them as the `root` user:

```bash
cd examples/.libs &&
for E in *; do
  install -v -m755 $E /usr/bin/theora_${E}
done
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed -i 's/png_\(sizeof\)/\1/g' examples/png2theora.c**: This **sed** fixes build with libpng 1.6.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None, unless you installed the examples

**Installed Libraries:** libtheora.so, libtheoraenc.so, and libtheoradec.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/theora and /usr/share/doc/libtheora-1.1.1

### Short Descriptions

`libtheora*.so`         &emsp; contains the functions to read and write video files.


## 42.43 libvorbis-1.3.7
--------

Introduction to libvorbis
-------------------------

The libvorbis package contains a general purpose audio and music encoding format. This is useful for creating (encoding) and playing (decoding) sound in an open (patent free) format.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/vorbis/libvorbis-1.3.7.tar.xz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/vorbis/libvorbis-1.3.7.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 50902641d358135f06a8392e61c9ac77
    
*   Download size: 1.1 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 15 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### libvorbis Dependencies

#### Required

[libogg-1.3.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4238-libogg-135)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) and [texlive-20220321](51.Typesetting.md#513-texlive-20220321-source) (or [install-tl-unx](51.Typesetting.md#512-install-tl-unx)) (specifically, pdflatex and htlatex) to build the PDF documentation

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Libvorbis](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Libvorbis)

Installation of libvorbis
-------------------------

Install libvorbis by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make -j1 check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m644 doc/Vorbis* /usr/share/doc/libvorbis-1.3.7
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--enable-docs`: This switch enables building the documentation in formats other than the supplied html.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** libvorbis.so, libvorbisenc.so and libvorbisfile.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/vorbis and /usr/share/doc/libvorbis-1.3.7

### Short Descriptions

`libvorbis.so`          &emsp; provides the functions used to read and write sound files.


## 42.44 libvpx-1.13.0
--------

Introduction to libvpx
----------------------

This package, from the WebM project, provides the reference implementations of the VP8 Codec, used in most current html5 video, and of the next-generation VP9 Codec.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/webmproject/libvpx/archive/v1.13.0/libvpx-1.13.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/webmproject/libvpx/archive/v1.13.0/libvpx-1.13.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: d5fd45a806a65a57d6635f9e7a98a1b2
    
*   Download size: 5.2 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 63 MB (add 1.5 GB for tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (Using parallelism=4; add approx 15 SBU for tests using parallelism=4, including download time)
    

### libvpx Dependencies

#### Recommended

[yasm-1.3.0](13.Programming.md#1337-yasm-130) or [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601), and [Which-2.21](12.System_utilities.md#1235-which-221-and-alternatives) (so **configure** can find yasm)

#### Optional

[cURL-7.88.1](17.Networking_libraries.md#172-curl-7881) (to download test files) and [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) (to build documentation)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libvpx](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/libvpx)

Installation of libvpx
----------------------

Install libvpx by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -i 's/cp -p/cp/' build/make/Makefile &&

mkdir libvpx-build            &&
cd    libvpx-build            &&

../configure --prefix=/usr    \
             --enable-shared  \
             --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. make test**. The test suite downloads many files as part of its test process. A few parts of it will use all available cores.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed ...** : This command corrects ownership and permissions of installed files.

**mkdir libvpx-build && cd libvpx-build**: The libvpx developers recommend building in a dedicated build directory.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--disable-vp8`: This switch prevents building of VP8 codec support.

`--disable-vp9`: This switch prevents building of VP9 codec support.

`--target=generic-gnu`: This switch disables optimizations specific for x86 and x86-64, allowing to build this package without **nasm** and **yasm** installed.

**LD_LIBRARY_PATH=.**: This is needed for the test suite to use the library that was just built.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** vpxdec and vpxenc

**Installed Libraries:** libvpx.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/vpx

### Short Descriptions

**vpxdec**              &emsp; is the WebM Project VP8 and VP9 decoder.

**vpxenc**              &emsp; is the WebM project VP8 and VP9 encoder.

`libvpx.so`             &emsp; provides functions to use the VP8 and VP9 video codecs.


## 42.45 MLT-7.12.0
--------

Introduction to MLT
-------------------

MLT package is the Media Lovin Toolkit. It is an open source multimedia framework, designed and developed for television broadcasting. It provides a toolkit for broadcasters, video editors, media players, transcoders, web streamers and many more types of applications.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/download/v7.12.0/mlt-7.12.0.tar.gz](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/download/v7.12.0/mlt-7.12.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 63e863f7653c098ece96ac8f6785fd38
    
*   Download size: 1.4 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 26 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.4 SBU
    

### MLT Dependencies

#### Required

[frei0r-plugins-1.8.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4213-frei0r-plugins-180) and [Qt-5.15.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2544-qt-5158)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310), [libexif-0.6.24](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1015-libexif-0624), [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215), [SDL2-2.26.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4251-sdl2-2263), [JACK](https://jackaudio.org), [MOVEit](https://www.ipswitch.com/moveit/), [SoX](https://sox.sourceforge.net/), and [vid.stab](http://public.hronopik.de/vid.stab/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/mlt](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/mlt)

Installation of MLT
-------------------

Install MLT by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release  \
      -Wno-dev .. &&

make
```

This package does not come with a test suite. However a test .mp4 file can be played in a local graphical environment with **./src/melt/melt <filename>.mp4**.

### Note

This application uses advanced graphical capabilities. In some cases, firmware for your specific graphics adaptor may be needed. See [the section called “Firmware for Video Cards”](3.After_lfs_configuration_issues.md#33-about-firmware) for more information.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** melt-7 and melt (symlink to melt-7)

**Installed Libraries:** libmlt-7.so, libmlt++-7.so, and over twenty plugins

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/mlt-7, /usr/lib/mlt-7, /usr/lib/cmake/Mlt7, and /usr/share/mlt-7

### Short Descriptions

**melt**                &emsp; is a test tool for MLT.


## 42.46 Opus-1.3.1
--------

Introduction to Opus
--------------------

Opus is a lossy audio compression format developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) that is particularly suitable for interactive speech and audio transmission over the Internet. This package provides the Opus development library and headers.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://archive.mozilla.org/pub/opus/opus-1.3.1.tar.gz](https://archive.mozilla.org/pub/opus/opus-1.3.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: d7c07db796d21c9cf1861e0c2b0c0617
    
*   Download size: 1.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 26 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.8 SBU (with tests)
    

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) and [texlive-20220321](51.Typesetting.md#513-texlive-20220321-source) (or [install-tl-unx](51.Typesetting.md#512-install-tl-unx))

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Opus](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/Opus)

Installation of Opus
--------------------

Install Opus by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/opus-1.3.1 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libopus.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/opus and /usr/share/doc/opus-1.3.1

### Short Descriptions

`libopus.so`            &emsp; provides the functions used to read and write Opus format.


## 42.47 Pipewire-0.3.66
--------

Introduction to Pipewire
------------------------

The pipewire package contains a server and userspace API to handle multimedia pipelines. This includes a universal API to connect to multimedia devices, as well as sharing multimedia files between applications.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/PipeWire/pipewire/archive/0.3.66/pipewire-0.3.66.tar.gz](https://github.com/PipeWire/pipewire/archive/0.3.66/pipewire-0.3.66.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 8a85d990c159409578b456f8c8dcf075
    
*   Download size: 1.9 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 62 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (with tests, both using parallelism=4)
    

### Pipewire Dependencies

#### Recommended

[BlueZ-5.66](12.System_utilities.md#125-bluez-566), [gstreamer-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4215-gstreamer-1220), [gst-plugins-base-1.22.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4216-gst-plugins-base-1220), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), [SBC-2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4249-sbc-20), and [v4l-utils-1.22.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4256-v4l-utils-1221)

#### Optional

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08), [BlueZ-5.66](12.System_utilities.md#125-bluez-566), [fdk-aac-2.0.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4211-fdk-aac-202), [FFmpeg-5.1.2](44.Video_utilities.md#441-ffmpeg-512), [libcanberra-0.30](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4226-libcanberra-030), [libdrm-2.4.115](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2537-libdrm-24115) (for one example and libcamera support), [libxcb-1.15](24.Graphical_environments.md#247-libxcb-115), [libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120), [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), [Opus-1.3.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4246-opus-131), [SDL2-2.26.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4251-sdl2-2263) (for some examples), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) and [Graphviz-7.1.0](11.General_utilities.md#116-graphviz-710) (for documentation), [JACK](https://jackaudio.org/), [ldacBT](https://github.com/EHfive/ldacBT), [libcamera](https://libcamera.org/), [Vulkan](https://vulkan.lunarg.com/sdk/home/), [WirePlumber](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pipewire/wireplumber/) (runtime, for running Pipewire daemon), and [xmltoman](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xmltoman/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/pipewire](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/pipewire)

Installation of Pipewire
------------------------

Install pipewire by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson --prefix=/usr --buildtype=release -Dsession-managers= .. &&
ninja
```

To test the result, issue: **ninja test**. One test named `test-support` is known to fail.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

`-Dsession-managers=`: This switch prevents automatic downloading external dependencies.

`-Ddocs=true`: This switch enables the generation of HTML documentation. The optional dependencies for documentation need to be installed for this to work.

`-Dman=true`: This switch enables the generation of manual pages. The optional dependencies for documentation need to be installed for this to work.

`-Dffmpeg=enabled`: This switch enables using ffmpeg for audio conversion as a SPA backend.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** pipewire, pipewire-avb, pipewire-pulse, pw-cat, pw-cli, pw-dot, pw-dump, pw-jack, pw-link, pw-loopback, pw-metadata, pw-mididump, pw-mon, pw-profiler, pw-reserve, pw-top, pw-v4l2, spa-acp-tool, spa-inspect, spa-json-dump, spa-monitor, spa-resample, and pw-dsdplay, pw-midiplay, pw-midirecord, pw-play, and pw-record (symlinks to pw-cat)

**Installed Libraries:** libpipewire-0.3.so and 56 modules below /usr/lib/pipewire-0.3 and /usr/lib/spa-0.2

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/pipewire-0.3, /usr/include/spa-0.2, /usr/lib/alsa-lib, /usr/lib/pipewire-0.3, /usr/lib/spa-0.2, /usr/share/alsa-card-profile, /usr/share/pipewire, and /usr/share/spa-0.2

### Short Descriptions

**pipewire**            &emsp; is a service that allows access to multimedia devices and allows sharing of multimedia files between applications.

**pipewire-media-session**      &emsp; is a service that allows a desktop environment to know when media files are being played through pipewire.

**pipewire-pulse**      &emsp; starts a Pulseaudio-compatible version of the pipewire service.

**pw-cat**              &emsp; allows you to play or record media using a pipewire instance.

**pw-cli**              &emsp; allows you to interact with a pipewire instance.

**pw-dot**              &emsp; lists all of the daemons and objects in use by pipewire.

**pw-dump**             &emsp; dumps debug messages from a local or remote pipewire instance to the console.

**pw-jack**             &emsp; runs JACK applications on a pipewire instance.

**pw-link**             &emsp; links pipewire ports together.

**pw-loopback**         &emsp; initializes a loopback link between two different pipewire ports. This is useful for testing and debugging.

**pw-metadata**         &emsp; inspects, adds, and removes metadata for objects.

**pw-mididump**         &emsp; dumps MIDI messages from a file to the screen.

**pw-mon**              &emsp; allows you to monitor pipewire instances.

**pw-profiler**         &emsp; tracks memory usage and API calls used by pipewire.

**pw-reserve**          &emsp; reserves or monitors a device via D-Bus.

**pw-top**              &emsp; displays real-time performance information from pipewire.

**pw-v4l2**             &emsp; runs v4l2 applications on a pipewire instance.

**spa-acp-tool**        &emsp; inspects the card profile of a given sound card.

**spa-inspect**         &emsp; allows you to inspect pipewire plugins.

**spa-json-dump**       &emsp; dumps the current pipewire configuration in JSON format.

**spa-monitor**         &emsp; allows you to monitor pipewire plugins.

**spa-resample**        &emsp; resamples a given file.

`libpipewire-0.3.so`    &emsp; contains API functions for handling multimedia pipelines.


## 42.48 PulseAudio-16.1
--------

Introduction to PulseAudio
--------------------------

PulseAudio is a sound system for POSIX OSes, meaning that it is a proxy for sound applications. It allows you to do advanced operations on your sound data as it passes between your application and your hardware. Things like transferring the audio to a different machine, changing the sample format or channel count and mixing several sounds into one are easily achieved using a sound server.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.freedesktop.org/software/pulseaudio/releases/pulseaudio-16.1.tar.xz](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/pulseaudio/releases/pulseaudio-16.1.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 2c7b8ceb5d7337565c7314b4d6087ca8
    
*   Download size: 1.5 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 42 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU (Using parallelism=4; add 0.2 SBU for tests)
    

### PulseAudio Dependencies

#### Required

[libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120)

#### Recommended

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [dbus-1.14.6](12.System_utilities.md#1210-dbus-1146), [GLib-2.74.5](9.General_libraries.md#913-glib-2745), [Speex-1.2.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4254-speex-121) and [Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries)

#### Optional

[Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08) [BlueZ-5.66](12.System_utilities.md#125-bluez-566), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) (for documentation), [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436), [libsamplerate-0.2.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4240-libsamplerate-022), [SBC-2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4249-sbc-20) (Bluetooth support), [Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200), [JACK](https://www.jackaudio.org/), [libasyncns](https://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/libasyncns/), [LIRC](https://www.lirc.org/), [ORC](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/src/orc/), [soxr](https://sourceforge.net/projects/soxr/), [TDB](https://tdb.samba.org/), and [WebRTC AudioProcessing](https://freedesktop.org/software/pulseaudio/webrtc-audio-processing/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/pulseaudio](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/pulseaudio)

Installation of PulseAudio
--------------------------

Install PulseAudio by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

meson --prefix=/usr       \
      --buildtype=release \
      -Ddatabase=gdbm     \
      -Ddoxygen=false     \
      -Dbluez5=disabled   &&
ninja
```

To test the results, issue: **ninja test**. One test fails if the tests are not run as the root user, but this can be ignored.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
ninja install
```

Running PulseAudio as a system-wide daemon is possible but not recommended. See [https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/Documentation/User/SystemWide/](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/Documentation/User/SystemWide/) for more information. While still as the `root` user, remove the D-Bus configuration file for the system wide daemon to avoid creating unnecessary system users and groups:

```bash
rm -fv /etc/dbus-1/system.d/pulseaudio-system.conf
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--buildtype=release`: Specify a buildtype suitable for stable releases of the package, as the default may produce unoptimized binaries.

`-Dbluez5=disabled`: This switch prevents a runtime error if [dbus-1.14.6](12.System_utilities.md#1210-dbus-1146) and [SBC-2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4249-sbc-20) are both installed but [BlueZ-5.66](12.System_utilities.md#125-bluez-566) is not installed. Remove this if you have installed all three packages.

`-Ddoxygen=false`: This allows the package to compile if [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) is not installed. Remove this if you have installed this and wish to build the documentation.

Configuring PulseAudio
----------------------

#### Config Files

There are system wide configuration files: `/etc/pulse/daemon.conf`, `/etc/pulse/client.conf`, `/etc/pulse/default.pa`, and user configuration files with the same names in `~/.config/pulse`. User configuration files take precedence over system wide ones.

#### Configuration Information

You may have to configure the audio system. You can start pulseaudio in command line mode using **pulseaudio -C** and then list various information and change settings. See **man pulse-cli-syntax**.

If pulseaudio was working but you no-longer have sound, after checking for hardware issues (speakers or headphones not connected, external amplifier not connected) you may need to fix it.

One suggestion is to close the application, such as firefox where sound has stopped working, then run: **pactl list short sinks** followed by: **pacmd set-default-sink <sink #>** and then restart the application.

If that does not work, a more drastic approach often works. After closing the application, close pulseaudio, either using **pulseaudio --kill** or, if that fails, **killall -KILL pulseaudio** and then **rm -rf ~/.config/pulse/*** (and perhaps also **rm -rf ~/.pulse/*** if you have used a very old version of pulse on this machine), then run **pulseaudio --verbose** to restart it. If the daemon starts, restart the application. See **man pulseaudio** for more options.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** pacat, pacmd, pactl, padsp, pamon (symlink to pacat), paplay (symlink to pacat), parec (symlink to pacat), parecord (symlink to pacat), qpaeq, pasuspender, pax11publish, pulseaudio, and start-pulseaudio-x11

**Installed Libraries:** libpulse.so, libpulse-mainloop-glib.so, libpulse-simple.so, libpulsecommon-16.1.so, libpulsecore-16.1.so, and libpulsedsp.so

**Installed Directories:** /etc/pulse, /usr/include/pulse, /usr/lib/cmake/PulseAudio, /usr/lib/{pulseaudio,pulse-16.1}, /usr/libexec/pulse, and /usr/share/pulseaudio

### Short Descriptions

**pacat**               &emsp; plays back or records raw or encoded audio streams on a PulseAudio sound server.

**pacmd**               &emsp; is a tool used to reconfigure a PulseAudio sound server during runtime.

**pactl**               &emsp; is used to control a running PulseAudio sound server.

**padsp**               &emsp; is the PulseAudio OSS Wrapper.

**pamon**               &emsp; is a symbolic link to **pacat**.

**paplay**              &emsp; is used to play audio files on a PulseAudio sound server.

**parec**               &emsp; is a symbolic link to **pacat**.

**parecord**            &emsp; is a symbolic link to **pacat**.

**pasuspender**         &emsp; is a tool that can be used to tell a local PulseAudio sound server to temporarily suspend access to the audio devices, to allow other applications to access them directly.

**pax11publish**        &emsp; is the PulseAudio X11 Credential Utility.

**pa-info**             &emsp; is a shell script that prints various information relating to the Pulseaudio server currently in use.

**pulseaudio**          &emsp; is a networked low-latency sound server for Linux.

**qpaeq**               &emsp; is an equalizer interface for PulseAudio equalizer sinks (Requires [fftw-3.3.10](9.General_libraries.md#912-fftw-3310) at build time).

**start-pulseaudio-x11**        &emsp; starts PulseAudio and registers it to the X11 session manager.


## 42.49 SBC-2.0
--------

Introduction to SBC
-------------------

The SBC is a digital audio encoder and decoder used to transfer data to Bluetooth audio output devices like headphones or loudspeakers.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/bluetooth/sbc-2.0.tar.xz](https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/bluetooth/sbc-2.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 5613357181daeffd71e971c6f8470f8d
    
*   Download size: 268 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 2.8 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### SBC Dependencies

#### Optional

[libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sbc](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sbc)

Installation of SBC
-------------------

Install SBC by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static --disable-tester &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-tester`: This disables the SBC tester. Remove it if you have installed [libsndfile-1.2.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4241-libsndfile-120).

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** sbcdec, sbcenc, and sbcinfo

**Installed Library:** libsbc.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/include/sbc

### Short Descriptions

**sbcdec**              &emsp; is a SBC decoder utility.

**sbcenc**              &emsp; is a SBC encoder utility.

**sbcinfo**             &emsp; is a subband codec (SBC) analyzer.

`libsbc.so`             &emsp; contains the SBC API functions.


## 42.50 SDL-1.2.15
--------

Introduction to SDL
-------------------

The Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL for short) is a cross-platform library designed to make it easy to write multimedia software, such as games and emulators.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz](https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9d96df8417572a2afb781a7c4c811a85
    
*   Download size: 3.8 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 40 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.6 SBU
    

### SDL Dependencies

#### Recommended

[Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries) (if they are not present, the corresponding modules are not built)

#### Optional

[AAlib-1.4rc5](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#101-aalib-14rc5), [ALSA-1.2.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#421-alsa-127), [GLU-9.0.2](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2516-glu-902), [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), [Pth-2.0.7](9.General_libraries.md#980-pth-207), [a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md), [DirectFB](https://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/repo/pkgs/directfb/), [GGI](https://ibiblio.org/ggicore/), [libcaca](https://github.com/cacalabs/libcaca), [PicoGUI](http://picogui.org/), and [SVGAlib](https://www.svgalib.org/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sdl](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sdl)

Installation of SDL
-------------------

Install SDL by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -e '/_XData32/s:register long:register _Xconst long:' \
    -i src/video/x11/SDL_x11sym.h &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&

make
```

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&

install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/SDL-1.2.15/html &&
install -v -m644    docs/html/*.html \
                    /usr/share/doc/SDL-1.2.15/html
```

Testing SDL
-----------

If you wish to, test the installation of SDL using the included test programs. It is not required to install any of the resulting binaries to validate the installation. Issue the following commands to build the test programs:

```bash
cd test &&
./configure &&
make
```

You'll need to manually run all the test programs (they are listed in the `README` file in this directory). Many of them will need to be manually killed, and you'll need to turn your speakers on with the volume at a suitable level.

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed -e ...**: This command fixes compilation with libX11-1.6.0 and later.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

`--disable-alsa-shared`: This switch disables dynamically loading ALSA shared libraries.

`--disable-sdl-dlopen`: This switch disables using dlopen for shared object loading. Loading image backend libraries like libpng dynamically on the fly does not work.

`--disable-x11-shared`: This switch disables dynamically loading X11 shared libraries.

Configuring SDL
---------------

#### Configuration Information

As with most libraries, there is no configuration to do, save that the library directory, i.e., `/opt/lib` or `/usr/local/lib` should appear in `/etc/ld.so.conf` so that **ldd** can find the shared libraries. After checking that this is the case, **/sbin/ldconfig** should be run while logged in as `root`.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** sdl-config

**Installed Libraries:** libSDL.so and libSDLmain.a

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/SDL and /usr/share/doc/SDL-1.2.15

### Short Descriptions

**sdl-config**          &emsp; determines the compile and linker flags that should be used to compile and link programs that use `libSDL`.

`libSDL.so`             &emsp; contains functions that provide low level access to audio, keyboard, mouse, joystick, 3D hardware via OpenGL, and 2D frame buffer across multiple platforms.


## 42.51 SDL2-2.26.3
--------

Introduction to SDL2
--------------------

The Simple DirectMedia Layer Version 2 (SDL2 for short) is a cross-platform library designed to make it easy to write multimedia software, such as games and emulators.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL2-2.26.3.tar.gz](https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL2-2.26.3.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 6ff7cbe9f77fc5afa79d54895dc6becc
    
*   Download size: 7.7 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 186 MB (with docs)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (using parallelism=4; with docs)
    

### SDL2 Dependencies

#### Recommended

[libxkbcommon-1.5.0](9.General_libraries.md#966-libxkbcommon-150), [wayland-protocols-1.31](9.General_libraries.md#987-wayland-protocols-131), and [Xorg Libraries](24.Graphical_environments.md#248-xorg-libraries) (if those are not present, the corresponding modules are not built)

#### Optional

[ALSA-1.2.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#421-alsa-127), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) (to create documentation), [ibus-1.5.27](11.General_utilities.md#119-ibus-1527), [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), [libsamplerate-0.2.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4240-libsamplerate-022), [a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md), [DirectFB](https://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/repo/pkgs/directfb/), [fcitx](https://fcitx-im.org/), and [jack](https://jackaudio.org/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sdl](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sdl)

Installation of SDL2
--------------------

Install SDL2 by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr &&
make
```

If you have [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) installed and want to build the html documentation, run the following commands:

```bash
pushd docs  &&
  doxygen   &&
popd
```

### Note

If you wish to build and run the package regression tests, do not delete the static libraries below until after the tests are built.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install              &&
rm -v /usr/lib/libSDL2*.a
```

If you built the documentation, install it as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -m755 -d        /usr/share/doc/SDL2-2.26.3/html &&
cp -Rv  docs/output/html/* /usr/share/doc/SDL2-2.26.3/html
```

Testing SDL2
------------

If you wish to, test the installation of SDL2 using the included test programs. None of the resulting binaries need to be installed. Issue the following commands to build the test programs:

```bash
cd test &&
./configure &&
make
```

Each of the test programs (they are listed in the `README` file in this directory) will need to be run individually. Many of them will need to be manually killed. Additionally, speakers need to be on with the volume at a suitable level.

Command Explanations
--------------------

**rm -v /usr/lib/libSDL2*.a**: Normally static libraries can be disabled with a `--disable-static` option to configure, but that breaks the build in this package.

`--disable-alsa-shared`: This switch disables dynamically loading ALSA shared libraries.

`--disable-sdl-dlopen`: This switch disables using dlopen for shared object loading. Loading image backend libraries like libpng dynamically on the fly does not work.

`--disable-x11-shared`: This switch disables dynamically loading X11 shared libraries.

Configuring SDL2
----------------

#### Configuration Information

As with most libraries, there is no configuration to do, save that the library directory, i.e., `/opt/lib` or `/usr/local/lib` should appear in `/etc/ld.so.conf` so that **ldd** can find the shared libraries. After checking that this is the case, **/sbin/ldconfig** should be run while logged in as `root`.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** sdl2-config

**Installed Libraries:** libSDL2.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/SDL2, /usr/lib/cmake/SDL2, and /usr/share/doc/SDL-2.26.3

### Short Descriptions

**sdl2-config**         &emsp; determines the compile and linker flags that should be used to compile and link programs that use `libSDL2`.

`libSDL2.so`            &emsp; contains functions that provide low level access to audio, keyboard, mouse, joystick, 3D hardware via OpenGL, and 2D frame buffer across multiple platforms.


## 42.52 sound-theme-freedesktop-0.8
--------

Introduction to Sound Theme Freedesktop
---------------------------------------

The Sound Theme Freedesktop package contains sound themes for the desktop.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://people.freedesktop.org/~mccann/dist/sound-theme-freedesktop-0.8.tar.bz2](https://people.freedesktop.org/~mccann/dist/sound-theme-freedesktop-0.8.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: d7387912cfd275282d1ec94483cb2f62
    
*   Download size: 472 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 2 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sound-theme-freedesktop](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sound-theme-freedesktop)

Installation of Sound Theme Freedesktop
---------------------------------------

Install Sound Theme Freedesktop by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directories:** /usr/share/sounds/freedesktop


## 42.53 SoundTouch-2.3.2
--------

Introduction to SoundTouch
--------------------------

The SoundTouch package contains an open-source audio processing library that allows changing the sound tempo, pitch and playback rate parameters independently from each other.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.surina.net/soundtouch/soundtouch-2.3.2.tar.gz](https://www.surina.net/soundtouch/soundtouch-2.3.2.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 058db201df6151e3cbd07dc8929885c4
    
*   Download size: 572 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 7.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/soundtouch](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/soundtouch)

Installation of SoundTouch
--------------------------

### Note

The tarball expands to 'soundtouch' instead of the expected 'soundtouch-2.3.2'

Install SoundTouch by running the following commands:

### Caution

The **bootstrap** command below fails if the ACLOCAL environment variable is set as specified in [Xorg-7](24.Graphical_environments.md#241-introduction-to-xorg-7). If it is used, ACLOCAL needs to be unset for this package and then reset for other packages.

```bash
./bootstrap &&
./configure --prefix=/usr \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/soundtouch-2.3.2 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install 
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--enable-openmp`: This switch adds support for running the algorithms in parallel across several processor cores using OpenMP implementation provided by GCC.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** soundstretch

**Installed Library:** libSoundTouch.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/soundtouch and /usr/share/doc/soundtouch-2.3.2

### Short Descriptions

**soundstretch**        &emsp; is a program for processing WAV audio files by modifying sound tempo, pitch and playback rate properties independently from each other.

`libSoundTouch.so`      &emsp; contains SoundTouch API functions.


## 42.54 Speex-1.2.1
--------

Introduction to Speex
---------------------

Speex is an audio compression format designed specifically for speech. It is well-adapted to internet applications and provides useful features that are not present in most other CODECs.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/speex/speex-1.2.1.tar.gz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/speex/speex-1.2.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: fe7bf610883ff202092b92c72fe0fe3e
    
*   Download size: 1020 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 7.8 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### Additional Downloads

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/speex/speexdsp-1.2.1.tar.gz](https://downloads.xiph.org/releases/speex/speexdsp-1.2.1.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: e6eb5ddef743a362c8018f260b91dca5
    
*   Download size: 904 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 5.5 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU
    

### Speex Dependencies

#### Required

[libogg-1.3.5](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4238-libogg-135)

#### Optional

[Valgrind-3.20.0](13.Programming.md#1336-valgrind-3200)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/speex](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/speex)

Installation of Speex
---------------------

This package consists of two separate tarballs. They need to be extracted and built independently.

Install Speex by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/speex-1.2.1 &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

As the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Now extract and install the speexdsp package:

```bash
cd ..                          &&
tar -xf speexdsp-1.2.1.tar.gz &&
cd speexdsp-1.2.1             &&

./configure --prefix=/usr    \
            --disable-static \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/speexdsp-1.2.1 &&
make
```

Again, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** speexenc and speexdec

**Installed Libraries:** libspeex.so and libspeexdsp.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/speex and /usr/share/doc/speex-1.2.1

### Short Descriptions

**speexdec**            &emsp; decodes a Speex file and produces a WAV or raw file.

**speexenc**            &emsp; encodes a WAV or raw file using Speex.

`libspeex.so`           &emsp; provides functions for the audio encoding/decoding programs.

`libspeexdsp.so`        &emsp; is a speech processing library that goes along with the Speex codec.


## 42.55 Taglib-1.13
--------

Introduction to Taglib
----------------------

Taglib is a library used for reading, writing and manipulating audio file tags and is used by applications such as Amarok and VLC.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://taglib.org/releases/taglib-1.13.tar.gz](https://taglib.org/releases/taglib-1.13.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 0b75619b67b9149cfcbbe5c127df6395
    
*   Download size: 1.3 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 13 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU
    

### Taglib Dependencies

#### Required

[CMake-3.25.2](13.Programming.md#134-cmake-3252)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/taglib](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/taglib)

Installation of Taglib
----------------------

Install Taglib by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir build &&
cd    build &&

cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release  \
      -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON \
      .. &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** taglib-config

**Installed Libraries:** libtag.so and libtag_c.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/taglib

### Short Descriptions

**taglib-config**       &emsp; is a tool used to print information about the taglib installation.


## 42.56 v4l-utils-1.22.1
--------

Introduction to v4l-utils
-------------------------

v4l-utils provides a series of utilities for media devices, allowing to handle the proprietary formats available at most webcams (libv4l), and providing tools to test V4L devices.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.linuxtv.org/downloads/v4l-utils/v4l-utils-1.22.1.tar.bz2](https://www.linuxtv.org/downloads/v4l-utils/v4l-utils-1.22.1.tar.bz2)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 8aa73287320a49e9170a8255d7b2c7e6
    
*   Download size: 2.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 117 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (using parallelism=4)
    

### v4l-utils Dependencies

#### Required

[LLVM-15.0.7](13.Programming.md#1313-llvm-1507) (with target BPF)

#### Recommended

[alsa-lib-1.2.8](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#422-alsa-lib-128), [GLU-9.0.2](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2516-glu-902), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), and [Qt-5.15.8](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2544-qt-5158)

#### Optional

[Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) and [SDL2-2.26.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4251-sdl2-2263)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/v4l-utils](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/v4l-utils)

Installation of v4l-utils
-------------------------

Install v4l-utils by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr     \
            --sysconfdir=/etc \
            --disable-static  &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make -j1 install
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cec-compliance, cec-ctl, cec-follower, cx18-ctl, decode_tm6000, dvb-fe-tool, dvb-format-convert, dvbv5-daemon, dvbv5-scan, dvbv5-zap, ir-ctl, ir-keytable, ivtv-ctl, media-ctl, qv4l2, qvidcap, rds-ctl, v4l2-compliance, v4l2-ctl, v4l2-dbg, and v4l2-sysfs-path

**Installed Library:** libdvbv5.so, libv4l1.so, libv4l2.so, libv4l2rds.so, libv4lconvert.so, v4l1compat.so, and v4l2convert.so

**Installed Directories:** /etc/rc_keymaps, /lib/udev/rc_keymaps, /usr/include/libdvbv5, and /usr/lib/libv4l

### Short Descriptions

**cx18-ctl**            &emsp; is a tool to handle cx18 based devices.

**decode_tm6000**       &emsp; decodes multiplexed formats from TM5600/TM6000 USB devices.

**dvb-fe-tool**         &emsp; is a command line tool for digital TV services.

**dvb-format-convert**  &emsp; is a tool meant to convert among different file formats. It is compliant with version 5 of the DVB API.

**dvbv5-scan**          &emsp; is a command line frequency scanning tool for digital TV services that are compliant with version 5 of the DVB API.

**dvbv5-zap**           &emsp; is a command line tuning tool for digital TV services that is compliant with version 5 of the DVB API.

**ir-keytable**         &emsp; is a tool that lists the Remote Controller devices, allows one to get/set IR keycode/scancode tables, test events generated by IR, and to adjust other Remote Controller options.

**ivtv-ctl**            &emsp; is a utility that can control many card settings, like changing the inputs from tuner to svideo or composite, setting video resolution or changing video mode (PAL, SECAM, NTSC).

**media-ctl**           &emsp; is a utility used to configure V4L2 devices.

**qv4l2**               &emsp; is used to test video4linux capture devices.

**qvidcap**             &emsp; is used to capture video from a V4L2 device.

**rds-ctl**             &emsp; is a utility for decoding raw RDS data from V4L2 Radio devices and offers simple ways to access the received RDS information.

**v4l2-compliance**     &emsp; is a compliance test tool.

**v4l2-ctl**            &emsp; is a tool to control v4l2 controls from the cmdline.

**v4l2-dbg**            &emsp; is a tool to directly get and set registers of v4l2 devices.

**v4l2-sysfs-path**     &emsp; checks the media devices installed on a machine and the corresponding device nodes.


## 42.57 x264-20230215
--------

Introduction to x264
--------------------

x264 package provides a library for encoding video streams into the H.264/MPEG-4 AVC format.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/x264/x264-20230215.tar.xz](https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/x264/x264-20230215.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 24eb4eae0d6358f31228c9ff86046c6f
    
*   Download size: 673 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 14 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.3 SBU (Using parallelism=4)
    

### x264 Dependencies

#### Recommended

[NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601)

#### Optional

[ffms2](https://github.com/FFMS/ffms2), [gpac](https://github.com/gpac/gpac/releases/) or [liblsmash](https://github.com/l-smash/l-smash)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/x264](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/x264)

Installation of x264
--------------------

Install x264 by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr \
            --enable-shared \
            --disable-cli &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-cli`: This switch disables building the command-line encoder which is redundant since it requires FFmpeg for most of the input formats.

`--disable-asm`: Use this switch if you didn't install NASM.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libx264.so

**Installed Directory:** None

### Short Descriptions

`libx264.so`            &emsp; provides the functions used to encode video streams into the H.264/MPEG-4 AVC format.


## 42.58 x265-20230215
--------

Introduction to x265
--------------------

x265 package provides a library for encoding video streams into the H.265/HEVC format.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/x265/x265-20230215.tar.xz](https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/x265/x265-20230215.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: e735837f5e3fa95889e0a72eca39fccf
    
*   Download size: 1.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 52 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.9 SBU (using parallelism=4)
    

### x265 Dependencies

#### Required

[CMake-3.25.2](13.Programming.md#134-cmake-3252)

#### Recommended

[NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601)

#### Optional

[numactl](https://github.com/numactl/numactl)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/x265](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/x265)

Installation of x265
--------------------

Install x265 by running the following commands:

```bash
mkdir bld &&
cd    bld &&

cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr \
      -DGIT_ARCHETYPE=1           \
      -Wno-dev ../source          &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
rm -vf /usr/lib/libx265.a 
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`-DGIT_ARCHETYPE=1`: Upstream no longer provides releases. BLFS is using a git snapshot, but if the builder has not installed git the build will not install the shared library or the pkgconfig file without this switch.

`-Wno-dev`: This switch is used to suppress warnings intended for the package's developers.

`rm -vf /usr/lib/libx265.a`: BLFS does not recommend using static libraries.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** x265

**Installed Library:** libx265.so

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

`libx265.so`            &emsp; provides the functions used to encode video streams into the H.265/HEVC format.


## 42.59 xine-lib-1.2.13
--------

Introduction to Xine Libraries
------------------------------

The Xine Libraries package contains xine libraries. These are useful for interfacing with external plug-ins that allow the flow of information from the source to the audio and video hardware.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/xine/xine-lib-1.2.13.tar.xz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/xine/xine-lib-1.2.13.tar.xz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://ftp.mirrorservice.org/sites/distfiles.gentoo.org/distfiles/xine-lib-1.2.13.tar.xz](ftp://ftp.mirrorservice.org/sites/distfiles.gentoo.org/distfiles/xine-lib-1.2.13.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9e1be39857b7a3cd7cc0f2b96331ff22
    
*   Download size: 4.8 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 98 MB (with API documentation)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with API documentation)
    

### Xine Libraries Dependencies

#### Required

[a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md), [FFmpeg-5.1.2](44.Video_utilities.md#441-ffmpeg-512), and at least one of: [ALSA-1.2.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#421-alsa-127), [PulseAudio-16.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4248-pulseaudio-161), or [JACK](https://jackaudio.org/)

#### Recommended

[libdvdnav-6.1.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4232-libdvdnav-611)

#### Optional

[AAlib-1.4rc5](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#101-aalib-14rc5), [FAAD2-2.10.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4210-faad2-2101), [FLAC-1.4.2](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4212-flac-142), [gdk-pixbuf-2.42.10](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2513-gdk-pixbuf-24210), [GLU-9.0.2](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2516-glu-902), [ImageMagick-7.1.0-61](11.General_utilities.md#1110-imagemagick-710-61), [liba52-0.7.4](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4223-liba52-074), [libdvdcss-1.4.3](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4230-libdvdcss-143), [libmad-0.15.1b](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4234-libmad-0151b), [libmng-2.0.3](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1018-libmng-203), [libnsl-2.0.0](17.Networking_libraries.md#1711-libnsl-200), [libtheora-1.1.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4242-libtheora-111), [libva-2.17.0](24.Graphical_environments.md#2424-xorg-drivers) (requires [GLU-9.0.2](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2516-glu-902)), [libvdpau-1.5](24.Graphical_environments.md#2424-xorg-drivers), [libvorbis-1.3.7](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4243-libvorbis-137), [libvpx-1.13.0](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4244-libvpx-1130), [Mesa-22.3.5](24.Graphical_environments.md#2416-mesa-2235), [Samba-4.17.5](15.Networking_programs.md#1510-samba-4175), [SDL-1.2.15](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4250-sdl-1215), [Speex-1.2.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4254-speex-121), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196) (to create the API documentation), [v4l-utils-1.22.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4256-v4l-utils-1221) [DirectFB](https://pkgs.fedoraproject.org/repo/pkgs/directfb/), [libbluray](https://www.videolan.org/developers/libbluray.html), [libcaca](https://github.com/cacalabs/libcaca), [libdca](https://www.videolan.org/developers/libdca.html), [libFAME](https://fame.sourceforge.net), [libmodplug](https://sourceforge.net/projects/modplug-xmms/), [musepack](https://www.musepack.net/), [VCDImager](https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/vcdimager/), and [WavPack](https://www.wavpack.com/),

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xine-lib](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xine-lib)

Installation of Xine Libraries
------------------------------

First, fix building this package with binutils-2.39:

```bash
sed -e '/xine_set_flags/s/XINE_PROTECTED//' -i include/xine.h
```

Install Xine Libraries by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr          \
            --disable-vcd          \
            --with-external-dvdnav \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/xine-lib-1.2.13 &&
make
```

To create the API documentation, Doxygen must be installed and issue the following command:

```bash
doxygen doc/Doxyfile
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

### Note

When installing, the Makefile does some additional linking. If you do not have Xorg in /usr, the LIBRARY_PATH variable needs to be defined for the root user. If using sudo to assume root, use the -E option to pass your current environment variables for the install process.

If you built the API documentation, issue the following commands as the `root` user to install it:

```bash
install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/xine-lib-1.2.13/api &&
install -v -m644    doc/api/* \
                    /usr/share/doc/xine-lib-1.2.13/api
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-vcd`: This switch is required to compile Xine Lib without [VCDImager](https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/vcdimager/) installed. Remove this option if you have installed VCDImager.

`--with-external-dvdnav`: This switch is required, because internal libraries cannot decrypt DVD.

`--docdir=/usr/share/doc/xine-lib-1.2.13`: This switch causes the documentation to be installed into a versioned directory instead of the default `/usr/share/doc/xine-lib`.

`--disable-vaapi`: use this switch if [libva-2.17.0](24.Graphical_environments.md#2424-xorg-drivers) is installed and [GLU-9.0.2](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2516-glu-902) is not, to prevent a build failure.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** xine-config and xine-list-1.2

**Installed Libraries:** libxine.so and numerous plugin modules and video extensions under /usr/lib/xine/plugins/2.8

**Installed Fonts:** Output display engine fonts located in /usr/share/xine-lib/fonts

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/xine, /usr/lib/xine, /usr/share/xine-lib, and /usr/share/doc/xine-lib-1.2.13

### Short Descriptions

**xine-config**         &emsp; provides information to programs trying to link with the xine libraries.

**xine-list-1.2**       &emsp; is used to get supported file type information from xine-lib.

`libxine.so`            &emsp; provides the API for processing audio/video files.


## 42.60 XviD-1.3.7
--------

Introduction to XviD
--------------------

XviD is an MPEG-4 compliant video CODEC.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.xvid.com/downloads/xvidcore-1.3.7.tar.gz](https://downloads.xvid.com/downloads/xvidcore-1.3.7.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 5c6c19324608ac491485dbb27d4da517
    
*   Download size: 804 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 7.1 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.1 SBU
    

### XviD Dependencies

#### Optional

[yasm-1.3.0](13.Programming.md#1337-yasm-130) or [NASM-2.16.01](13.Programming.md#1317-nasm-21601)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xvid](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xvid)

Installation of XviD
--------------------

### Note

This package tarball expands to `xvidcore`, not the expected `xvidcore-1.3.7`.

Install XviD by running the following commands:

```bash
cd build/generic &&
sed -i 's/^LN_S=@LN_S@/& -f -v/' platform.inc.in &&

./configure --prefix=/usr &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
sed -i '/libdir.*STATIC_LIB/ s/^/#/' Makefile &&
make install &&

chmod -v 755 /usr/lib/libxvidcore.so.4.3 &&
install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/xvidcore-1.3.7/examples &&
install -v -m644 ../../doc/* /usr/share/doc/xvidcore-1.3.7 &&
install -v -m644 ../../examples/* \
    /usr/share/doc/xvidcore-1.3.7/examples
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed -i 's/^LN_S=@LN_S@/& -f -v/' platform.inc.in**: Fix error during **make install** if reinstalling or upgrading.

**sed -i '/libdir.*STATIC_LIB/ s/^/#/' Makefile**: This command disables installing the static library.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** None

**Installed Library:** libxvidcore.so

**Installed Directory:** /usr/share/doc/xvidcore-1.3.7

### Short Descriptions

`libxvidcore.so`        &emsp; provides functions to encode and decode most MPEG-4 video data.
