
# 46. Printing
--------

This chapter contains spooling printer management systems and ghostscript applications to render PostScript for display on terminals or paper.


## 46.1 Cups-2.4.2
--------

Introduction to Cups
--------------------

The Common Unix Printing System (CUPS) is a print spooler and associated utilities. It is based on the "Internet Printing Protocol" and provides printing services to most PostScript and raster printers.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/OpenPrinting/cups/releases/download/v2.4.2/cups-2.4.2-source.tar.gz](https://github.com/OpenPrinting/cups/releases/download/v2.4.2/cups-2.4.2-source.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: be5241e2c165eeb83b58aa32de26fb16
    
*   Download size: 7.8 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 60 MB (Add 37 MB for tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.5 SBU (Add 1.3 SBU for tests)
    

### Cups Dependencies

#### Required

[GnuTLS-3.8.0](4.Security.md#47-gnutls-380)

#### Recommended

[colord-1.4.6](12.System_utilities.md#127-colord-146), [dbus-1.14.6](12.System_utilities.md#1210-dbus-1146), [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), [Linux-PAM-1.5.2](4.Security.md#412-linux-pam-152), and [xdg-utils-1.1.3](41.Other_x-based_programs.md#4115-xdg-utils-113)

#### Optional

[Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08), [libpaper-1.1.24+nmu5](9.General_libraries.md#949-libpaper-1124nmu5), [MIT Kerberos V5-1.20.1](4.Security.md#415-mit-kerberos-v5-1201), [PHP-8.2.3](13.Programming.md#1321-php-823), and [Python-2.7.18](13.Programming.md#1322-python-2718)

#### Required (Postinstall)

[cups-filters-1.28.16](46.Printing.md#462-cups-filters-12816)

#### Optional (Postinstall)

[Gutenprint-5.3.4](46.Printing.md#464-gutenprint-534) and [hplip](https://developers.hp.com/hp-linux-imaging-and-printing) (HP printers)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/cups](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/cups)

Kernel Configuration
--------------------

### Note

There used to be a conflict between the Cups libusb backend and the usblp kernel driver. This is no longer the case and cups will work with both of these enabled.

If you want to use the kernel usblp driver (for example, if you wish to use escputil from [Gutenprint-5.3.4](46.Printing.md#464-gutenprint-534)) enable the following options in your kernel configuration and recompile the kernel:

```bash
Device Drivers  --->
    [*] USB support  --->                            [CONFIG_USB_SUPPORT]
        <*/M>  OHCI HCD (USB 1.1) support            [CONFIG_USB_OHCI_HCD]
        <*/M>  UHCI HCD (most Intel and VIA) support [CONFIG_USB_UHCI_HCD]
        <*/M>  USB Printer support                   [CONFIG_USB_PRINTER]
```

If you have a parallel printer, enable the following options in your kernel configuration and recompile the kernel:

```bash
Device Drivers  --->
    <*/M> Parallel port support  --->       [CONFIG_PARPORT]
        <*/M> PC-style hardware             [CONFIG_PARPORT_PC]
    Character devices  --->
        <*/M> Parallel printer support      [CONFIG_PRINTER]
```

Installation of Cups
--------------------

You will need to add an `lp` user, as Cups will create some files owned by this user. (The `lp` user is the default used by Cups, but may be changed to a different user by passing a parameter to the **configure** script.) Use the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
useradd -c "Print Service User" -d /var/spool/cups -g lp -s /bin/false -u 9 lp
```

You will also need a dedicated group that will contain users allowed to do Cups administrative tasks. Add the group by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
groupadd -g 19 lpadmin
```

If you want to add a user to the Cups administrative group, run the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
usermod -a -G lpadmin <username>
```

If you didn't install [xdg-utils-1.1.3](41.Other_x-based_programs.md#4115-xdg-utils-113), use the following **sed** to change the default browser that will be used to access the Cups web interface:

```bash
sed -i 's#@CUPS_HTMLVIEW@#firefox#' desktop/cups.desktop.in
```

Replace **firefox** with the web browser of your choice.

Build Cups by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --libdir=/usr/lib            \
            --with-system-groups=lpadmin \
            --with-docdir=/usr/share/cups/doc-2.4.2 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **LC_ALL=C make -k check**. An already active graphical session with bus address is necessary to run the tests. Make sure that there is not other instance of Cups running, otherwise at least 4 tests will fail with "address in use". One test, `httpAddrGetList`, is known to fail.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
ln -svnf ../cups/doc-2.4.2 /usr/share/doc/cups-2.4.2
```

Create a basic Cups client configuration file by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
echo "ServerName /run/cups/cups.sock" > /etc/cups/client.conf
```

### Note

This package installs icon files into the `/usr/share/icons/hicolor` hierarchy and you can improve system performance and memory usage by updating `/usr/share/icons/hicolor/index.theme`. To perform the update you must have [GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433) or [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436) installed and issue the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
gtk-update-icon-cache -qtf /usr/share/icons/hicolor
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed ... configure**: This sed removes a compiler option which is no longer supported. Leaving this change out, the compilation will run thru but a warning about an invalid warning option will be emitted on every compiler invocation.

`CC=gcc CXX=g++`: Setting them if you prefer to use **gcc** instead of **clang**, which is now preferred by the upstream.

`--with-system-groups=lpadmin`: This switch ensures that only `lpadmin` will be used as the Cups administrative group.

`--disable-libusb`: Use this switch if you have installed [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), but wish to use the kernel usblp driver.

`--enable-libpaper`: Use this switch if you have installed libpaper and wish to use it with Cups.

Configuring Cups
----------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/cups/*`

#### Configuration Information

Normally, printers are set up via a web browser. The Cups server will normally connect via the url http://localhost:631. From there printers, print jobs, and the server configuration can be set up and managed. Remote system administration can also be set up. Configuration can also be done from the command line via the **lpadmin**, **lpoptions**, and **lpstat** commands.

Configuration of Cups is dependent on the type of printer and can be complex. Generally, PostScript printers are easier. For detailed instructions on configuration and use of Cups, see [https://www.cups.org/documentation.html](https://www.cups.org/documentation.html).

For non-PostScript printers to print with Cups, you need to install [ghostscript-10.00.0](46.Printing.md#463-ghostscript-10000) to convert PostScript to raster images and a driver (e.g. from [Gutenprint-5.3.4](46.Printing.md#464-gutenprint-534)) to convert the resulting raster images to a form that the printer understands. [Foomatic](https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/openprinting/database/foomatic) drivers use [ghostscript-10.00.0](46.Printing.md#463-ghostscript-10000) to convert PostScript to a printable form directly, but this is considered suboptimal by Cups developers.

#### Linux PAM Configuration

If CUPS has been built with Linux PAM support, you need to create a PAM configuration file to get it working correctly with BLFS.

Issue the following command as the `root` user to create the configuration file for Linux PAM:

```bash
cat > /etc/pam.d/cups << "EOF"
# Begin /etc/pam.d/cups

auth    include system-auth
account include system-account
session include system-session

# End /etc/pam.d/cups
EOF
```

#### Systemd Unit

To start the **cupsd** daemon when something tries to access it, enable the previously installed systemd units by running the following command as the `root` user:

systemctl enable cups

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cancel, cupsaccept, cups-config, cupsctl, cupsd, cupsdisable, cupsenable, cupsfilter, cupsreject, cupstestppd, ippeveprinter, ipptool, lp, lpadmin, lpc, lpinfo, lpmove, lpoptions, lpq, lpr, lprm, lpstat, ppdc, ppdhtml, ppdi, ppdmerge, and ppdpo

**Installed Libraries:** libcupsimage.so and libcups.so

**Installed Directories:** /etc/cups, /usr/{include,lib,share}/cups, /usr/share/doc/cups-2.4.2, and /var/{cache,log,run,spool}/cups

### Short Descriptions

**cancel**              cancels existing print jobs from the print queues.

**cupsaccept**          accept jobs sent to a destination.

**cups-config**         is a Cups program configuration utility.

**cupsctl**             updates or queries the cupsd.conf file for a server.

**cupsd**               is the scheduler for the Common Unix Printing System.

**cupsdisable**         stop printers and classes.

**cupsenable**          start printers and classes.

**cupsfilter**          is a front-end to the Cups filter subsystem which allows you to convert a file to a specific format.

**cupsreject**          reject jobs sent to a destination.

**cupstestppd**         tests the conformance of PPD files.

**ippeveprinter**       is an IPP Everywhere printer for CUPS.

**ipptool**             sends IPP requests to the specified URI and tests and/or displays the results.

**lp**                  submits files for printing or alters a pending job.

**lpadmin**             configures printer and class queues provided by Cups.

**lpc**                 provides limited control over printer and class queues provided by Cups.

**lpinfo**              lists the available devices or drivers known to the Cups server.

**lpmove**              moves the specified job to a new destination.

**lpoptions**           displays or sets printer options and defaults.

**lpq**                 shows the current print queue status on the named printer.

**lpr**                 submits files for printing.

**lprm**                cancels print jobs that have been queued for printing.

**lpstat**              displays status information about the current classes, jobs, and printers.

**ppdc**                compiles PPDC source files into one or more PPD files.

**ppdhtml**             reads a driver information file and produces a HTML summary page that lists all of the drivers in a file and the supported options.

**ppdi**                imports one or more PPD files into a PPD compiler source file.

**ppdmerge**            merges two or more PPD files into a single, multi-language PPD file.

**ppdpo**               extracts UI strings from PPDC source files and updates either a GNU gettext or Mac OS X strings format message catalog source file for translation.

`libcups.so`            contains the Cups API functions.


## 46.2 cups-filters-1.28.16
--------

Introduction to CUPS Filters
----------------------------

The CUPS Filters package contains backends, filters and other software that was once part of the core CUPS distribution but is no longer maintained by Apple Inc.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://www.openprinting.org/download/cups-filters/cups-filters-1.28.16.tar.xz](https://www.openprinting.org/download/cups-filters/cups-filters-1.28.16.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 24bed15110499fd652d65d6baab85ca6
    
*   Download size: 1.4 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 56 MB (with tests), 16 MB installed
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### CUPS Filters Dependencies

#### Required

[Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242), [GLib-2.74.5](9.General_libraries.md#913-glib-2745), [ghostscript-10.00.0](46.Printing.md#463-ghostscript-10000), [Little CMS-2.14](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1014-little-cms-214), [Poppler-23.02.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1031-poppler-23020), and [Qpdf-11.2.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1033-qpdf-1120)

#### Recommended

[Dejavu fonts](24.Graphical_environments.md#2431-ttf-and-otf-fonts) (the build fails if they are not installed, although they are only required for the tests), [libexif-0.6.24](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1015-libexif-0624), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639), [libtiff-4.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1024-libtiff-450), and [mupdf-1.21.1](50.PostScript.md#504-mupdf-1211) (mutool)

#### Optional

[Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08) (required to build the DNSSD backend of the **cups-browsed** daemon, which is needed for operating some network printers), [OpenLDAP-2.6.4](23.Other_server_software.md#231-openldap-264), [PHP-8.2.3](13.Programming.md#1321-php-823) (use of this might be broken), [Liblouis (Braille)](https://liblouis.github.io/downloads/), and [Liblouisutdml (Braille)](https://liblouis.github.io/downloads/)

#### Optional printer drivers (runtime)

[Gutenprint-5.3.4](46.Printing.md#464-gutenprint-534) (for supported printers), or other printer drivers, such as [hplip](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hplip/files/hplip/)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/cups-filters](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/cups-filters)

Installation of CUPS Filters
----------------------------

Install CUPS Filters by running the following commands:

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr        \
            --sysconfdir=/etc    \
            --localstatedir=/var \
            --without-rcdir      \
            --disable-static     \
            --disable-avahi      \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/cups-filters-1.28.16 &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**. DejaVu fonts are needed for the tests.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

Install the systemd unit by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
install -v -m644 utils/cups-browsed.service /lib/systemd/system/cups-browsed.service
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

`--disable-avahi`: This switch is needed if the optional [Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08) is not installed. Remove it if avahi is installed and you need network printer discovery capabilities.

`--without-rcdir`: This switch disables installation of the bundled bootscript which is not compatible with BLFS.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

``--with-test-font-path=`VALUE` ``: If you wish to run the tests, but you do not have the default `/usr/share/fonts/dejavu/DejaVuSans.ttf` use this switch to specify where `DejaVuSans.ttf` (or perhaps some other text TTF font - untested) is located.

Configuring CUPS Filters
------------------------

#### Systemd Units

To start the **cups-browsed** daemon at boot, enable the previously installed systemd unit by running the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
systemctl enable cups-browsed
```

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cups-browsed, driverless, driverless-fax, and foomatic-rip

**Installed Libraries:** libcupsfilters.so and libfontembed.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/{cupsfilters,fontembed}, /usr/lib/cups/{backend,driver,filter}, /usr/share/cups/{braille,charsets}, /usr/share/doc/cups-filters-1.28.16, and /usr/share/ppd/cupsfilters

### Short Descriptions

**cups-browsed**        is a daemon for browsing the Bonjour and CUPS broadcasts of shared, remote CUPS printers.

**driverless**          is a PPD generator utility for driverless printing.

**driverless-fax**      is a wrapper to **driverless** for FAX type devices.

**foomatic-rip**        is a universal print filter/RIP wrapper which can be used as CUPS filter or stand-alone for spooler-less, direct printing.

`libcupsfilters.so`     contains CUPS Filters API functions.


## 46.3 ghostscript-10.00.0
--------

Introduction to Ghostscript
---------------------------

Ghostscript is a versatile processor for PostScript data with the ability to render PostScript to different targets. It is a mandatory part of the cups printing stack.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://github.com/ArtifexSoftware/ghostpdl-downloads/releases/download/gs1000/ghostscript-10.0.0.tar.xz](https://github.com/ArtifexSoftware/ghostpdl-downloads/releases/download/gs1000/ghostscript-10.0.0.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: c75560fdd05dc1f1daa33415156d5a20
    
*   Download size: 60 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 377 MB (with fonts and libgs.so)
    
*   Estimated build time: 1.9 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with libgs.so)
    

### Additional Downloads

If you wish, you can download additional fonts.

**Standard Fonts**

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gs-fonts/ghostscript-fonts-std-8.11.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gs-fonts/ghostscript-fonts-std-8.11.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 6865682b095f8c4500c54b285ff05ef6
    
*   Download size: 3.7 MB
    

**Other Fonts**

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gs-fonts/gnu-gs-fonts-other-6.0.tar.gz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gs-fonts/gnu-gs-fonts-other-6.0.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 33457d3f37de7ef03d2eea05a9e6aa4f
    
*   Download size: 796 KB
    

### Ghostscript Dependencies

#### Recommended

[Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242) (required for building the “cups” device backend, which is needed by cups-filters), [Fontconfig-2.14.2](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#105-fontconfig-2142) (required, if you are installing any suggested font), [FreeType-2.13.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#104-freetype-2130), [Little CMS-2.14](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1014-little-cms-214), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [libpng-1.6.39](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1020-libpng-1639), [libtiff-4.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1024-libtiff-450), and [OpenJPEG-2.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1029-openjpeg-250)

#### Optional

[Cairo-1.17.6](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#254-cairo-1176), [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436), [libidn-1.41](9.General_libraries.md#943-libidn-141), [libpaper-1.1.24+nmu5](9.General_libraries.md#949-libpaper-1124nmu5), and [a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gs](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gs)

Installation of Ghostscript
---------------------------

### Note

The Ghostscript build system is not user-friendly. In order to use system copies of various graphics libraries, you must do it using unconventional methods.

Ghostscript includes (old) copies of several libraries. Some of these seem to have been patched to fix known vulnerabilities, but others of these copies are less-well maintained. To ensure that any future fixes are applied throughout the whole system, it is recommended that you first install the released versions of these libraries and then configure Ghostscript to link to them.

If you have installed the recommended dependencies on your system, remove the copies of freetype, lcms2, libjpeg, libpng, and openjpeg:

```bash
rm -rf freetype lcms2mt jpeg libpng openjpeg
```

Compile Ghostscript:

```bash
rm -rf zlib &&

./configure --prefix=/usr           \
            --disable-compile-inits \
            --with-system-libtiff   &&
make
```

### Note

The shared library depends on [GTK+-3.24.36](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2521-gtk-32436). It is only used by external programs like [asymptote-2.85](51.Typesetting.md#514-asymptote-285), [dvisvgm-3.0.3](51.Typesetting.md#516-dvisvgm-303), and [ImageMagick-7.1.0-61](11.General_utilities.md#1110-imagemagick-710-61).

To compile the shared library `libgs.so`, run the following additional command as an unprivileged user:

```bash
make so
```

This package does not come with a test suite. A set of example files may be used for testing, but it is only possible after installation of the package.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install
```

If you want the shared library too:

```bash
make soinstall &&
install -v -m644 base/*.h /usr/include/ghostscript &&
ln -sfvn ghostscript /usr/include/ps
```

Now make the documentation accessible from a standard place:

```bash
mv -v /usr/share/doc/ghostscript/10.00.0 /usr/share/doc/ghostscript-10.00.0  &&
rm -rfv /usr/share/doc/ghostscript &&
cp -r examples/ /usr/share/ghostscript/10.00.0/
```

If you have downloaded the fonts, unpack them to `/usr/share/ghostscript` and ensure the ownership of the files are `root`: `root`.

```bash
tar -xvf ../ghostscript-fonts-std-8.11.tar.gz -C /usr/share/ghostscript --no-same-owner &&
tar -xvf ../gnu-gs-fonts-other-6.0.tar.gz     -C /usr/share/ghostscript --no-same-owner &&
fc-cache -v /usr/share/ghostscript/fonts/
```

You can now test the rendering of various postscript and pdf files from the `/usr/share/ghostscript/10.00.0/examples` . To do this, run the following command (in a X Windows display):

```bash
gs -q -dBATCH /usr/share/ghostscript/10.00.0/examples/tiger.eps
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**rm -rf zlib** : zlib was installed as part of LFS.

`--disable-compile-inits`: This option makes **gs** and `libgs.so` slightly smaller.

`--with-system-libtiff`: Remove this option if you've not installed [libtiff-4.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1024-libtiff-450).

**install -v -m644 base/*.h...** : Some packages (ImageMagick is one) need the Ghostscript interface headers in place to link to the shared library. These commands install the headers.

**ln -sfvn ghostscript /usr/include/ps**: Some packages expect to find the interface headers in an alternate location.

**mv -v /usr/share/doc/ghostscript/10.00.0 /usr/share/doc/ghostscript-10.00.0**: This moves the documentation where it is expected to be found.

`--disable-cups`: this option will save a tiny amount of space by not linking **gs** and `libgs.so` to the [Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242) libraries if you have installed those.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** dvipdf, eps2eps, gs, gsbj, gsc (from soinstall), gsdj, gsdj500, gslj, gslp, gsnd, gsx (from soinstall), lprsetup.sh, pdf2dsc, pdf2ps, pf2afm, pfbtopfa, pphs, printafm, ps2ascii, ps2epsi, ps2pdf, ps2pdf12, ps2pdf13, ps2pdf14, ps2pdfwr, ps2ps, ps2ps2, and unix-lpr.sh

**Installed Library:** libgs.so

**Installed Directories:** /usr/include/ghostscript, /usr/share/ghostscript, and /usr/share/doc/ghostscript-10.00.0

### Short Descriptions

**gs**                  is an interpreter for Adobe Systems' PostScript(tm) and Portable Document Format (PDF).

`libgs.so`              provides Ghostscript functionality to other programs, such as GSView, ImageMagick, and libspectre.

Ghostscript provides many different scripts used to convert PostScript, PDF, and other formats. Please refer to the HTML documentation or the man pages for information about the capabilities provided.


## 46.4 Gutenprint-5.3.4
--------

Introduction to Gutenprint
--------------------------

The Gutenprint (formerly Gimp-Print) package contains high quality drivers for many brands and models of printers for use with [Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242) and the GIMP-2.0. See a list of supported printers at [https://gutenprint.sourceforge.net/p_Supported_Printers.php](https://gutenprint.sourceforge.net/p_Supported_Printers.php).

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gimp-print/gutenprint-5.3.4.tar.xz](https://downloads.sourceforge.net/gimp-print/gutenprint-5.3.4.tar.xz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: dc208cfb873f13a93439185c15aa6f81
    
*   Download size: 5.1 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 59 MB (without tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.4 SBU (without tests)
    

### Gutenprint Dependencies

#### Recommended

[Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242) and [Gimp-2.10.32](41.Other_x-based_programs.md#414-gimp-21032)

#### Recommended (at runtime)

Two families of DyeSub photo printers each require another library at runtime. Unless you have one of these devices you will not want these libraries.

For the Sinfonia S6145 and the Ciaat Brava 21, [libS6145ImageReProcess](https://git.shaftnet.org/gitea/slp/selphy_print/src/branch/master/lib6145), see [Peachy Photos (Sinfonia)](https://www.peachyphotos.com/blog/posts/201601301524-sinfonia-chc-s6145-cs2-and-ciaat-brava-21-revited/) for instructions on how to build and test this.

For the Mitsubishi D70 family and the similar Kodak 305, [libMitsuD70ImageReProcess](https://git.shaftnet.org/gitea/slp/selphy_print/src/branch/master/lib70x), see [Peachy Photos (Mitsubishi CP-D70)](https://www.peachyphotos.com/blog/posts/201610061508-mitsubishi-cp-d70-family-working/) for instructions on how to build and test this.

#### Optional (to Regenerate Documentation)

[ImageMagick-7.1.0-61](11.General_utilities.md#1110-imagemagick-710-61), [texlive-20220321](51.Typesetting.md#513-texlive-20220321-source) (or [install-tl-unx](51.Typesetting.md#512-install-tl-unx)), [Doxygen-1.9.6](13.Programming.md#135-doxygen-196), and [DocBook-utils-0.6.14](48.Standard_generalized_markup_language_SGML.md#487-docbook-utils-0614)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gutenprint](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/gutenprint)

Kernel Configuration
--------------------

If you intend to use escputil with a USB-connected Epson Stylus printer for commands such as **\--ink-level** which need to access the raw device, you must enable the kernel's usblp driver. Enable the following options in your kernel configuration and recompile the kernel:

```bash
Device Drivers  --->
    [*] USB support  --->                          [CONFIG_USB_SUPPORT]
        <*/M>  OHCI HCD (USB 1.1) support            [CONFIG_USB_OHCI_HCD]
        <*/M>  UHCI HCD (most Intel and VIA) support [CONFIG_USB_UHCI_HCD]
        <*/M>  USB Printer support                   [CONFIG_USB_PRINTER]
```

Installation of Gutenprint
--------------------------

Install Gutenprint by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -i 's|$(PACKAGE)/doc|doc/$(PACKAGE)-$(VERSION)|' \
       {,doc/,doc/developer/}Makefile.in &&

./configure --prefix=/usr --disable-static &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**. The tests take a very long time and use a lot of disk space. When last tested (version 5.2.15 in June 2019) this needed 75 SBU and 13.5 GB to complete the tests (one test, rastertogutenprint failed because the CUPS ppds are for a previous version. Maybe genppds should be run before the tests). Note that the tests used only one CPU.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m755 -d /usr/share/doc/gutenprint-5.3.4/api/gutenprint{,ui2} &&
install -v -m644    doc/gutenprint/html/* \
                    /usr/share/doc/gutenprint-5.3.4/api/gutenprint &&
install -v -m644    doc/gutenprintui2/html/* \
                    /usr/share/doc/gutenprint-5.3.4/api/gutenprintui2
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sed -i '...' ...Makefile.in**: This command is used so that the package documentation is installed in the conventional `/usr/share/doc` directory structure instead of `/usr/share/gutenprint/doc`.

`--disable-static`: This switch prevents installation of static versions of the libraries.

Configuring Gutenprint
----------------------

#### Configuration Information

For CUPS to see newly installed print drivers, it has to be restarted (as the `root` user):

systemctl restart cups

Then point your web browser to [http://localhost:631/](http://localhost:631/) to add a new printer to CUPS.

Contents
--------

**Installed Programs:** cups-calibrate, cups-genppd.5.2, cups-genppdupdate, escputil, and testpattern

**Installed Libraries:** libgutenprint.so, libgutenprintui2.so and optionally, various CUPS filters and backend drivers under /usr/lib/gutenprint/5.2/modules/

**Installed Directories:** /usr/{include,lib,share}/gutenprint, /usr/include/gutenprintui2 and /usr/share/doc/gutenprint-5.3.4

### Short Descriptions

**cups-calibrate**      calibrates the color output of printers using the Gutenprint, CUPS or ESP Print Pro drivers.

**cups-genppd.5.2**     generates Gutenprint PPD files for use with CUPS.

**cups-genppdupdate**   regenerates the Gutenprint PPD files in use by CUPS.

**escputil**            is a command line utility to perform various maintenance tasks on Epson Stylus inkjet printers.

**testpattern**         is a test program to learn how to use libgutenprint.
