
# 47. Scanning
--------

This chapter contains scanning applications which allow you to convert printed documents into formatted documents readable by other applications.


## 47.1 SANE-1.0.32
--------

Introduction to SANE
--------------------

SANE is short for Scanner Access Now Easy. Scanner access, however, is far from easy, since every vendor has their own protocols. The only known protocol that should bring some unity into this chaos is the TWAIN interface, but this is too imprecise to allow a stable scanning framework. Therefore, SANE comes with its own protocol, and the vendor drivers can't be used.

SANE is split into back ends and front ends. The back ends are drivers for the supported scanners and cameras. The front ends are user interfaces to access the backends.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Back Ends Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/sane/sane-backends-1.0.32.tar.gz](https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/sane/sane-backends-1.0.32.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 51ff581b911fc9b7b6b5ae6959f9089b
    
*   Download size: 7.0 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 246 MB (with tests)
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.7 SBU (Using parallelism=4; with tests)
    

### Additional Downloads (Front Ends)

*   Download (HTTP): [https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/sane/sane-frontends-1.0.14.tar.gz](https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/sane/sane-frontends-1.0.14.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: c63bf7b0bb5f530cf3c08715db721cd3
    
*   Download size: 231 KB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 3.0 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: less than 0.1 SBU

### Note

The upstream location for these files is at [https://gitlab.com/sane-project](https://gitlab.com/sane-project) but the file URLs use embedded md5sums. For convenience, the packages have been copied to the location above.

### SANE Dependencies

#### Optional (Back Ends)

[Avahi-0.8](16.Networking_utilities.md#161-avahi-08), [Cups-2.4.2](46.Printing.md#461-cups-242), [libjpeg-turbo-2.1.5.1](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1017-libjpeg-turbo-2151), [libtiff-4.5.0](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1024-libtiff-450), [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), [v4l-utils-1.22.1](42.Multimedia_libraries_and_drivers.md#4256-v4l-utils-1221), [Net-SNMP](http://www.net-snmp.org/), [libieee1284](http://cyberelk.net/tim/libieee1284/), [libgphoto2](http://www.gphoto.org/), and [texlive-20220321](51.Typesetting.md#513-texlive-20220321-source) (or [install-tl-unx](51.Typesetting.md#512-install-tl-unx))

#### Optional (Front Ends)

[a graphical environment](24.Graphical_environments.md), [GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433), and [Gimp-2.10.32](41.Other_x-based_programs.md#414-gimp-21032)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sane](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/sane)

Kernel Configuration, Drivers and Additional Packages
-----------------------------------------------------

To access your scanner, you will probably need the related kernel drivers and/or additional support packages. A SCSI scanner will need SCSI drivers, a parallel port scanner needs parallel port support (you should use enhanced EPP modes) and perhaps [libieee1284](http://cyberelk.net/tim/libieee1284/), and a USB scanner will need the [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026) package. For HP devices, you may need [hplip](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hplip/files/hplip/). Ensure you have the necessary drivers properly configured to access the devices.

Installation of SANE
--------------------

#### Installation of SANE Back Ends

The SANE daemon should run with its own group. Create this group by issuing the following commands as the `root` user:

```bash
groupadd -g 70 scanner
```

### Note

**configure** assumes that the user building SANE-backends is a member of the `scanner` group for testing the existence of this group. So the user building the package should be added to the `scanner` group. As the `root` user:

```bash
usermod -G scanner -a username
```

After adding the `scanner` group as above, you will need to log out and back in to activate it.

For a USB scanner, if you are linking to [libusb-1.0.26](9.General_libraries.md#964-libusb-1026), include the configure switch --enable-libusb_1_0. Install SANE-backends by running the following commands:

```bash
sg scanner -c "                  \
./configure --prefix=/usr        \
            --sysconfdir=/etc    \
            --localstatedir=/var \
            --with-group=scanner \
            --with-lockdir=/run/lock \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/sane-backends-1.0.32" &&
make
```

To test the results, issue: **make check**.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install                                         &&
install -m 644 -v tools/udev/libsane.rules           \
                  /etc/udev/rules.d/65-scanner.rules &&
mkdir -p          /run/lock/sane &&
chgrp -v scanner  /run/lock/sane
```

With the scanner on, run **scanimage -L** and the name and location of the device should appear. Of course, you need the device drivers configured, in order to run this test.

#### Installation of SANE Front Ends

The SANE-frontends package includes the graphical frontends **xscanimage** and **xcam**, and a command-line frontend **scanadf**. You don't need this package if you intend to use one of the more advanced graphical frontends like [XSane-0.999](47.Scanning.md#472-xsane-0999). For a list of frontend packages, see [http://www.sane-project.org/sane-frontends.html](http://www.sane-project.org/sane-frontends.html).

To install SANE-frontends, use the following commands:

```bash
tar -xf ../sane-frontends-1.0.14.tar.gz &&
cd sane-frontends-1.0.14                &&

sed -i -e "/SANE_CAP_ALWAYS_SETTABLE/d" src/gtkglue.c &&
./configure --prefix=/usr --mandir=/usr/share/man &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make install &&
install -v -m644 doc/sane.png xscanimage-icon-48x48-2.png \
    /usr/share/sane
```

If GIMP was linked into the build and you wish GIMP to use **xscanimage** as a scanning plugin, issue the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
ln -v -s ../../../../bin/xscanimage /usr/lib/gimp/2.0/plug-ins
```

### Note

If the plugin **xscanimage** is disabled in GIMP's menu, in order to enable it, "create" a blank image using the menu or Ctrl-N. After that, it is enabled.

Command Explanations
--------------------

**sg scanner -c "..."**: runs the command between double quotes with principal group `scanner`. This may be needed if the user has been newly added to group scanner, and has not logged out and in.

`--sysconfdir=/etc`: This switch installs the configuration files in `/etc/sane.d` instead of `/usr/etc/sane.d`.

`--with-group=scanner`: This parameter causes the directory created for the locking files to be group owned by the `scanner` group instead of the default `uucp` group.

**exit**: This command is used to exit the shell created by the **su** command.

Configuring SANE
----------------

#### Config Files

`/etc/sane.d/*.conf`

#### Configuration Information

##### Backend Configuration

The backend configuration files are located in `/etc/sane.d`. Information for configuring the various backends can be found by using the man(5) page for the desired backend. Run **man sane-`<backend>`**, substituting the desired backend.

Add any desired users to the `scanner` group.

If you want to access a network scanner, include two lines in `net.conf`, as `root` user (make sure to replace <server_ip> by the actual value, below):

```bash
cat >> /etc/sane.d/net.conf << "EOF"
connect_timeout = 60
<server_ip>
EOF
```

On the server side, include the client ip in the access list of `/etc/sane.d/saned.conf`, restart the **saned** daemon, and make sure the firewall, if any, is open to the client.

##### Frontend Configuration

If you use a desktop environment like Gnome or KDE you may wish to create a `xscanimage.desktop` file so that xscanimage appears in the panel's menus. As the `root` user:

```bash
mkdir -pv /usr/share/{applications,pixmaps}               &&

cat > /usr/share/applications/xscanimage.desktop << "EOF" &&
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=XScanImage - Scanning
Comment=Acquire images from a scanner
Exec=xscanimage
Icon=xscanimage
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Categories=Application;Graphics
EOF

ln -svf ../sane/xscanimage-icon-48x48-2.png /usr/share/pixmaps/xscanimage.png
```

##### General Information

For general information about configuring and using SANE, see **man sane**. For information about USB scanning devices, run **man sane-usb**. For information about SCSI devices, run **man sane-scsi**.

##### Configuration and setup of the 'saned' daemon

The **saned** daemon is not meant to be used for untrusted clients. You should provide [Firewalling](4.Security.md#410-setting-up-a-network-firewall) protection to ensure only trusted clients access the daemon. Due to the complex security requirements to ensure only trusted clients access the daemon, BLFS does not provide instructions to configure the **saned** daemon. Some good (but outdated) information for setting up and securing the **saned** daemon can be found at [https://penguin-breeder.org/sane/saned/](https://penguin-breeder.org/sane/saned/).

Contents
--------

#### Back Ends:

**Installed Programs:** gamma4scanimage, sane-config, saned, sane-find-scanner, and scanimage

**Installed Libraries:** libsane.so and numerous scanner backend modules

**Installed Directories:** /etc/sane.d, /usr/{include,lib,share}/sane, and /usr/share/doc/sane-1.0.32

#### Front Ends:

**Installed Programs:** scanadf, xcam, and xscanimage

**Installed Library:** GIMP plugin embedded in **xscanimage**

**Installed Directories:** None

### Short Descriptions

**gamma4scanimage**     creates a gamma table in the format expected by **scanimage**.

**sane-config**         is a tool used to determine the compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile and link SANE.

**saned**               is the SANE daemon that allows remote clients to access image acquisition devices available on the local host.

**sane-find-scanner**   is a command-line tool to find SCSI and USB scanners and determine their device files. Its primary purpose is to make sure that scanners can be detected by SANE backends.

**scanadf**             is a command-line interface to control image acquisition devices which are equipped with an automatic document feeder (ADF).

**scanimage**           is a command line interface for scanning from image acquisition devices such as flatbed scanners or cameras. It is also used to list the available backend devices.

**xcam**                is a graphical camera front end for SANE.

**xscanimage**          is a graphical user interface for scanning.

`libsane.so`            is the application programming interface that is used to communicate between frontends and backends.

`libsane-*.so`          modules are backend scanning library plugins used to interface with scanning devices. See [http://www.sane-project.org/sane-supported-devices.html](http://www.sane-project.org/sane-supported-devices.html) for a list of supported backends.


## 47.2 XSane-0.999
--------

Introduction to XSane
---------------------

XSane is another front end for [SANE-1.0.32](47.Scanning.md#471-sane-1032). It has additional features to improve the image quality and ease of use compared to **xscanimage**.

This package is known to build and work properly using an LFS 11.3 platform.

### Package Information

*   Download (HTTP): [https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/xsane/xsane-0.999.tar.gz](https://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/xsane/xsane-0.999.tar.gz)
    
*   Download (FTP): [ftp://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/xsane/xsane-0.999.tar.gz](ftp://anduin.linuxfromscratch.org/BLFS/xsane/xsane-0.999.tar.gz)
    
*   Download MD5 sum: 9927f21e1ab6ba96315e7f0e30746deb
    
*   Download size: 2.9 MB
    
*   Estimated disk space required: 23 MB
    
*   Estimated build time: 0.2 SBU
    

### XSane Dependencies

#### Required

[GTK+-2.24.33](25.Graphical_environment_libraries.md#2520-gtk-22433) and [SANE-1.0.32](47.Scanning.md#471-sane-1032) (back ends)

#### Optional

[Little CMS-1.19](10.Graphics_and_font_libraries.md#1013-little-cms-119) and [Gimp-2.10.32](41.Other_x-based_programs.md#414-gimp-21032)

User Notes: [https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xsane](https://wiki.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/wiki/xsane)

Installation of XSane
---------------------

Install XSane by running the following commands:

```bash
sed -i -e 's/png_ptr->jmpbuf/png_jmpbuf(png_ptr)/' src/xsane-save.c &&
./configure --prefix=/usr                                           &&
make
```

This package does not come with a test suite.

Now, as the `root` user:

```bash
make xsanedocdir=/usr/share/doc/xsane-0.999 install &&
ln -v -s ../../doc/xsane-0.999 /usr/share/sane/xsane/doc
```

A browser of your choice can be used to get inline help, using the following command, as the `root` user:

```bash
ln -v -s <browser> /usr/bin/netscape
```

### Note

Be sure to replace <browser> with the browser of your choice on your system.

Alternatively, if the environment variable BROWSER is set to the browser you want to use, eg, BROWSER="/usr/bin/firefox", the first time you run **xsane**, it will be recorded in `~/.sane/xsane/xsane.rc`. If you wish to change it, edit this file, or remove it, and use the instructions above, so that a new one is created.

If GIMP is installed, issue the following command as the `root` user:

```bash
ln -v -s /usr/bin/xsane /usr/lib/gimp/2.0/plug-ins/
```

Command Explanations
--------------------

**ln -v -s ../../doc/xsane-0.999 /usr/share/sane/xsane/doc**: This symlink is created to ensure that any program that looks for the XSane documentation in the default location will find it, as the documentation is installed in an alternate location specified in the **make install** command.

**ln -v -s /usr/bin/xsane /usr/lib/gimp/2.0/plug-ins/**: This creates a link in the system-wide GIMP `plug-ins` directory so that users can access XSane directly from GIMP. GIMP must be available before building XSane for this to work. Alternatively, create the link in `~/.gimp-2.0/plug-ins/` to provide individual user access. **man xsane** for additional information.

Contents
--------

**Installed Program:** xsane

**Installed Libraries:** None

**Installed Directory:** /usr/share/doc/xsane-0.999 and /usr/share/sane/xsane

### Short Descriptions

**xsane**               is a graphical user-interface to control an image acquisition device such as a flatbed scanner.
